EFRAG SRB Meeting
16 October 2024
09-03
This paper has been prepared by the EFRAG Secretariat for discussion at a public meeting of EFRAG SRB. The paper
forms part of an early stage of the development of a potential EFRAG position. Consequently, the paper does not
represent the official views of EFRAG or any individual member of EFRAG SRB or EFRAG SR TEG. The paper is made
available to enable the public to follow the discussions in the meeting. Tentative decisions are made in public and
reported in the EFRAG Update. EFRAG positions, as approved by EFRAG SRB, are published as comment letters,
discussion or position papers, or in any other form considered appropriate in the circumstances.
The content of each Explanation has been drafted to provide an answer to a specific technical question and cannot
be directly extended by analogy to a different fact-pattern.
Log of draft explanations
Table of content
Cross-Cutting ................................................................................................................................... 2
ID 166 – Scope of consolidation timing of acquisitions and divestments ....................................... 2
ID 438 – Treatment of non-material datapoints: e.g., radioactive waste - can it be a non-material
datapoint? ....................................................................................................................................... 4
ID 753– Financial materiality in the value chain and power purchase agreements ....................... 5
ID 855 – Financial materiality and time horizon ............................................................................. 7
ID 870 – Materiality threshold for group company ...................................................................... 11
ID 923 – Phase-in entity specific disclosures ................................................................................. 12
ID 952 – Metrics – rounding and decimals; materiality of information ........................................ 13
ID 968 – Ecolabel ........................................................................................................................... 14
ID 1013 - Variable remuneration potential discrepancy between ESRS 2 and ESRS E1? .............. 14
Environmental ............................................................................................................................... 16
ID 283 – Is waste incineration a disposal operation ..................................................................... 16
ID 472 – Major incidents and deposits .......................................................................................... 18
ID 531 – Base year ......................................................................................................................... 20
ID 653 – Microplastics - tires wear ................................................................................................ 21
ID 734 – Disclosure of progress in meeting climate-related targets ............................................. 23
ID 815 – Substances of concern – in articles ................................................................................. 24
ID 831 – Contractual instruments ................................................................................................. 26
ID 832 – Pollutants emissions – changes over time ...................................................................... 27
ID 873 – Transport of removed GHGs .......................................................................................... 28
ID 882 – Data availability for biogenic emissions in Scope 3 ........................................................ 29
ID 893– Conversion factor fossil fuels ........................................................................................... 30
Governance ................................................................................................................................... 31
ID 800 Corruption and Bribery ...................................................................................................... 31
EFRAG SRB Meeting 16 October 2024 Page 1 of 32
Log of explanations
Cross-Cutting
ID 166 – Scope of consolidation timing of acquisitions and divestments
[For SRB to note: TEG and also SRB WG members agreed with the answer of this ID but some
pointed out the practical difficulties that undertakings have following the current ESRS
requirements for acquisitions close to year-end; also noting that pointing to estimates is not
helpful especially if those estimates do not meet the requirements for quality of information
(“badly estimated metrics”). An Amendment to ESRS was considered necessary by many.]
Question asked
In case an undertaking acquires / (divests from) one or more of its subsidiaries how should the
undertaking report on them in the year of acquisition / (divestment)?
ESRS reference
ESRS 1 paragraphs 33, 62
Key terms
Acquisition and divestment of subsidiaries in the sustainability statement
Background
ESRS 1 paragraph 33 states: ‘When disclosing information on policies, actions and targets in
relation to a sustainability matter that has been assessed to be material, the undertaking shall
include the information prescribed by all the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the
topical and sector-specific ESRS related to that matter and in the corresponding Minimum
Disclosure Requirement on policies, actions, and targets required under ESRS 2. If the undertaking
cannot disclose the information prescribed by either the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints
in the topical or sector-specific ESRS, or the Minimum Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 on
policies, actions and targets, because it has not adopted the respective policies, implemented the
respective actions or set the respective targets, it shall disclose this to be the case and it may
report a timeframe in which it aims to have these in place.’
ESRS 1 paragraph 62 states: ‘The sustainability statements shall be for the same reporting
undertaking as the financial statements. For example, if the reporting undertaking is a parent
company required to prepare consolidated financial statements, the sustainability statement will
be for the group. ...’
ESRS 1 paragraph 102 states: ‘When the undertaking is reporting at a consolidated level, it shall
perform its assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities for the entire consolidated
group regardless of its group legal structure. …’
The consolidated group comprises the parent company and the subsidiaries financially controlled
based on IFRS accounting standards or the applicable national GAAP. A parent company might
acquire control / (or lose control) over a subsidiary during the reporting period. From an
accounting point of view the subsidiary is consolidated for the first time on the day control is
achieved / (or de-consolidated at the date control is lost) according to applicable accounting
requirements. Under IFRS accounting standards the undertaking has one year of time to complete
the full accounting procedure and at the year end, pending the completion of the procedure, a
provisional accounting approach is taken. ESRS do not have a corresponding provisional reporting
approach.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 2 of 32
Log of explanations
Answer
The sustainability statement shall be for the same reporting undertaking as the financial
statements. Therefore, in the approach of the first-time consolidation (deconsolidation) of newly
acquired (disposed) entities, the perimeter for sustainability statement follows the scope and
timing applied in the financial statements. This results in a pro-rata inclusion or exclusion of flux
metrics (e.g. water consumption, GHG emissions) starting from the data of acquisition or ending
to the data of divestment (i.e. date control is acquired or lost) and a consideration of point-in-
time metrics at that specific point-in-time (e.g., balance-sheet date with the acquired respectively
without the disposed-off entities).
If regarding newly acquired subsidiaries the undertaking cannot disclose the information
prescribed by either the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical or sector-specific
ESRS, or the Minimum Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 on policies, actions and targets,
because it has not adopted the respective policies yet, implemented the respective actions yet or
set the respective targets yet, it shall – if they relate to a material matter- disclose this to be the
case and it may report a timeframe in which it aims to have these in place (see ESRS 1 paragraph
33). However, the reporting undertaking shall disclose the policies, actions and targets adopted
by the acquired investee before the acquisition, when they were in place in the reporting period
to manage material IROs.
Material metrics of impacts, risks or opportunities of the acquired investee are to be reported,
i.e. included in the relevant group metrics. If the metric cannot be determined through direct data
collection, it shall be estimated; assumptions and limitations in this estimation shall be disclosed.
Similarly to what happens in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, practical
considerations might be applied when preparing the sustainability statement, such as not
including the data of an entity acquired during the reporting period, when the difference in the
relevant metrics would be immaterial, provided that the resulting information still allows to meet
the qualitative characteristics of information, including relevance and faithful representation (see
ESRS 1 paragraph 19).
Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty shall be disclosed in accordance with ESRS 2
paragraph 11.
See also:
ID 148 Scope of consolidation – non-EU and unconsolidated subsidiaries;
ID 337 Metrics calculation – same level of precision; and
ID 504 Disclosure Requirements on material metrics when information is not available.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 3 of 32
Log of explanations
For the attention of the SRB:
An SRB WG member objected and provided the following rational:
‘Material metrics of impacts, risks or opportunities of the acquired investee are to be
reported, i.e. included in the relevant group metrics. If the metric cannot be determined
through direct data collection, it shall be estimated; assumptions and limitations in this
estimation shall be disclosed.’
The member thinks that the above is not always possible, nor sensible and would prefer to
follow the process as described in the following paragraph:
‘If regarding newly acquired subsidiaries the undertaking cannot disclose the information
prescribed by either the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical or sector-
specific ESRS, or the Minimum Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 on policies, actions and
targets ... if they relate to material matter- disclose this to be the case and it may report a
timeframe in which it aims to have these in place (see ESRS 1 paragraph 33).’
As such, the member proposes this edit or rejects this explanation if changes cannot be made.
Feedback from the secretariat: We note the concern and understand the difficulties. The same
view has been raised by some in TEG as well. However, ESRS 1 paragraph 33 is only applicable
to PAT, so cannot be extended by analogy to other situations. The concern might result in an
amendment of ESRS going forward.
ID 438 – Treatment of non-material datapoints: e.g., radioactive waste -
can it be a non-material datapoint?
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
Is it necessary to report radioactive waste from analytical devices and tracer applications?
ESRS Reference
ESRS E5 paragraph 39; ESRS 1 paragraph 34, ESRS 2 paragraph 56
Key terms
Waste; radioactive waste; non-material datapoint
Background
The submitter provided the following background: ‘Reporting all radioactive waste according to
2022/70/Euratom would include radioactive tracers and, analytical devices and sensors.
Reporting of these wastes should be excluded because they are present in very small amounts
and already locally reported under applicable legislation. Ex-EU, the definition of radioactive
waste may also be different from 2022/70/Euratom.’
ESRS E5 paragraph 39 states: ‘The undertaking shall also disclose the total amount of hazardous
waste and radioactive waste generated by the undertaking, where radioactive waste is defined in
Article 3(7) of Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom.
ESRS 1 paragraph 34 states: ‘When disclosing information on metrics for a material sustainability
matter according to the Metrics and Targets section of the relevant topical ESRS, the undertaking:
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 4 of 32
Log of explanations
(a) shall include the information prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement if it assesses such
information to be material; and
(b) may omit the information prescribed by a datapoint of a Disclosure Requirement if it
assesses such information to be not material and concludes that such information is not
needed to meet the objective of the Disclosure Requirement.’
ESRS 2 paragraph 56 states: ‘ … The undertaking shall also include a table of all the datapoints
that derive from other EU legislation as listed in Appendix B of this standard, indicating where
they can be found in the sustainability statement and including those that the undertaking has
assessed as not material, in which case the undertaking shall indicate “Not material” in the table
in accordance with ESRS 1 paragraph 35.’
Answer
It depends, whether it is necessary to report radioactive waste.
The Disclosure Requirement of ESRS E5-5 - Resource outflow with the datapoints total amount of
hazardous waste and radioactive waste (paragraph 39) is - as all the topical Disclosure
Requirements - subject to double materiality and to materiality of information as stipulated in
ESRS 1 chapter 3 – Double materiality as the basis for sustainability disclosures:
(a) is the sub-topic ‘waste’ material? - the undertaking shall only disclose the datapoints of
the sub-topic waste of ESRS E5, if considered material under double materiality (see ESRS
1 chapter 3.3 Double materiality); and if so,
(b) does the datapoint provide material information? - the metrics required to be disclosed
by ESRS E5-5 Waste including ‘the total amount of hazardous waste and radioactive waste
generated by the undertaking’ shall only be disclosed if such information is assessed to
be material and may be omitted if not (ESRS 1 paragraph 34).
Accordingly, it depends on materiality whether radioactive waste from analytical devices and
tracer applications shall be reported. Reference is made to ESRS 1 paragraphs 36 and 42 on
establishing appropriate thresholds when disclosing on metrics.
It is noted that the datapoints of ESRS E5 paragraph 39 derive from other EU legislation as listed
in Appendix B of ESRS 2 and that ESRS 2 paragraph 56 applies. This means that - if applicable (i.e.,
the amount of radioactive waste is not material for reporting) - the enterprise shall flag that the
amount of radioactive waste is not material in accordance with ESRS 1 paragraph 35.
Reference is made to ID 952 –Metrics – rounding and decimals; materiality of information.
ID 753– Financial materiality in the value chain and power purchase
agreements
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
(1) Shall a matter included in the financial statements of the undertaking but being outside
of its value chain be reported in the undertaking's financial materiality assessment?
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 5 of 32
Log of explanations
(2) There is uncertainty whether a PPA (Power Purchase Agreement) would enter the scope
of the value chain of the undertaking. More specifically, 1) in the case of a VPPA 2) in the
case of a DPPA.
ESRS Reference
ESRS 1 chapter 3.5 Financial materiality, paragraphs 49 and 63
Key terms
Value chain; financial materiality; power purchase agreements
Background
[As part of the question the submitter also stated: ‘While Section 3.5 Financial materiality doesn't
mention that the matter shall be part of the undertaking's value chain, the related risks and
opportunities notions are used in the rest of the document as "in the undertaking's value chain".’]
ESRS 1 paragraph 49 states: ‘A sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective if it
triggers or could reasonably be expected to trigger material financial effects on the undertaking.
This is the case when a sustainability matter generates risks or opportunities that have a material
influence, or could reasonably be expected to have a material influence, on the undertaking’s
development, financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of
capital over the short-, medium- or long-term. Risks and opportunities may derive from past
events or future events. The financial materiality of a sustainability matter is not constrained to
matters that are within the control of the undertaking but includes information on material risks
and opportunities attributable to business relationships beyond the scope of consolidation used
in the preparation of financial statements.’
ESRS 1 paragraph 63 states: ‘The information about the reporting undertaking provided in the
sustainability statement shall be extended to include information on the material impacts, risks
and opportunities connected with the undertaking through its direct and indirect business
relationships in the upstream and/or downstream value chain (“value chain information”). …’
A power purchase agreement (PPA), or electricity power agreement, is a long-term contract
between an electricity generator and a customer, usually a utility, government or company. The
PPA defines the conditions of the agreement, such as the amount of electricity to be supplied,
negotiated prices, accounting, and penalties for non-compliance. Since it is a bilateral agreement,
a PPA can take many forms and is usually tailored to the specific application. The power generated
might be renewable. Under a PPA, the customer is strictly speaking paying a provider for the
energy received. Therefore, in the case of renewable energy the undertaking will not necessarily
get the ancillary benefits of owning the renewable energy asset, such as the ability to get tax
rebates or sell renewable energy credits.
PPAs might be in the form of a physical-PPA (customer is receiving a fixed amount of energy at a
fixed price) or virtual-PPA (customer is receiving / paying cash for a fixed amount of energy based
on the difference between a fixed and a variable price per unit).
Often those contracts result in parties involved receiving renewable energy certificates (‘RECs’).
Answer
(1) Shall a matter included in the financial statements of the undertaking but being outside
of its value chain be reported in the undertaking's financial materiality assessment?
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 6 of 32
Log of explanations
A transaction or contract included in the financial statements and the sustainability matter
related to it cannot be considered outside the value chain. So, a PPA be it physical or virtual is
considered as being in own operations (noting that: value chain comprises upstream and
downstream value chain as well as own operations, see Annex II Acronyms and glossary of terms).
Financial materiality in the sustainability statement includes items that arise from the
undertaking’s own operations and items that arise in its value chain.
A matter is material for inclusion in the sustainability statement from a financial materiality
perspective, when it generates risks or opportunities that have a material influence or could
reasonably be expected to have a material influence, on the undertaking’s development, financial
position, financial performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of capital over the short-,
medium- or long-term (see ESRS 1 paragraph 49).
(2) More specifically: There is uncertainty whether a PPA (Power Purchase Agreement)
would enter the scope of the value chain of the undertaking. More specifically, 1) in the
case of a VPPA 2) in the case of a DPPA
A counterparty to the power purchase agreement is connected with the undertaking’s activities
(see ESRS 1 paragraph 63).
A physical-PPA results in the delivery of energy, and as it relates to indirect emissions, falls under
Scope 2 emissions under the GHG Protocol.
A virtual-PPA is a financial instrument resulting in the exchange of cash often combined with
certificates to affect the energy mix of the undertaking. As this is part of the undertaking’s
activities (to manage its energy costs or to obtain Guarantees of Origin (or Energy Attribute
Certificates (EAC)), this is part of its own operations and not its value chain. The purchased
Guarantees of Origin may ultimately form part of categorisation of Scope 2 disclosures under ESRS
E1 whether surrendered or not. For answering this question please note that the answer does
not relate to the relationship between the undertaking and the party delivering physical energy
that often exists in the three-party relationship involving virtual-PPAs.
As the substance of the contracts differ between a physical and a virtual PPA, the undertaking’s
material impacts on people and environment and the material effects of sustainability matters
on the undertaking’s development, performance and condition might also differ.
IG 2 Value chain FAQ 2: Are financial assets (loans, equity and debt investments) considered
business relationships that trigger VC information? states: ‘Business relationships and value chain
as defined in Annex II Acronyms and Glossary of Terms do not exclude any types of activities and
business relationships.’
ID 855 – Financial materiality and time horizon
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
What is the role of time horizon (short, medium or long) in the materiality assessment of risks
and opportunities?
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 7 of 32
Log of explanations
ESRS Reference
ESRS 1 chapter 3.5 Financial materiality; paragraphs AR 14 and AR 15; chapter 6.4 Definition of
short-, medium- and long-term for reporting purposes; ESRS E1 paragraphs AR 67 and 68
Key terms
Time horizon; financial materiality
Background
The question received: ‘When assessing risks and opportunities from a financial perspective, how
is it possible to integrate the variable of time horizon (e.g. short, medium or long) in the
evaluation of magnitude/probability of that risk or opportunity?’ was rephrased to the above for
clarity.
ESRS 1 paragraph AR 14 states: ‘The identification of risks and opportunities that affect or could
reasonably be expected to affect the undertaking’s financial position, financial performance, cash
flows, access to finance or cost of capital over the short-, medium- or long-term is the starting
point for financial materiality assessment. In this context, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) the existence of dependencies on natural and social resources as sources of financial
effects (see paragraph 50);
(b) their classification as sources of:
i. risks (contributing to negative deviation in future expected cash inflows or increase in
deviation in future expected cash outflows and/or negative deviation from an
expected change in capitals not recognised in the financial statements); or
ii. opportunities (contributing to positive deviation in future expected cash inflows or
decrease in deviation in future cash outflows and/or positive deviation from expected
change in capitals not recognised in financial statements).
ESRS 1 paragraph AR 15 states: ‘Once the undertaking has identified its risks and opportunities, it
shall determine which of them are material for reporting. This shall be based on a combination
of (i) the likelihood of occurrence and (ii) the potential magnitude of financial effects determined
on the basis of appropriate thresholds. In this step it shall consider the contribution of those risks
and opportunities to financial effects in the short-, medium- and long-term based on:
(a) scenarios /forecasts that are deemed likely to materialise; and
(b) potential financial effects related to sustainability matters deriving either from situations
with a below the “more likely than not” threshold or assets/liabilities not, or not yet,
reflected in financial statements. This includes:
i. potential situations that following the occurrence of future events may affect cash
flow generation potential;
ii. capitals that are not recognised as assets from an accounting and financial reporting
perspective but have a significant influence on financial performance, such as natural,
intellectual (organisational), human, social and relationship capitals; and
iii. possible future events that may have an influence on the evolution of such capitals.
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 67 states: ’67. Material climate-related physical risks and transition
risks may affect the undertaking’s financial position (e.g., owned assets, financially-controlled
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 8 of 32
Log of explanations
leased assets, and liabilities), performance (e.g., potential future increase/decrease in net
revenue and costs due to business interruptions, increased supply prices resulting in potential
margin erosions), and cash flows. The low probability, high severity and long-term time horizons
of some climate- related physical risk exposures and the uncertainty arising from the transition
to a sustainable economy mean that there will be associated material anticipated financial
effects that are outside the scope of the requirements of applicable accounting standards.
ESRS E1 paragraph 68 states. “Currently, there is no commonly accepted methodology to assess
or measure how material physical risks and transition risks may affect the undertaking’s future
financial position, financial, performance and cash flows. Therefore, the disclosure of the financial
effects (as required by paragraphs 64, 66 and 67) will depend on the undertaking’s internal
methodology and the exercise of significant judgement in determining the inputs, and
assumptions needed to quantify their anticipated financial effects.’
Answer
Note for the SRB
An SRB member (in the context of the SRB WG) objected and commented that this ID should
not be published as an Explanation but as an IG, in order to allow stakeholders to provide
feedback.
The EFRAG SR TEG discussed the necessity do develop an IG as well, but reached a consensus
on the fact that the current text reflects the content of ESRS and IFRS AR on the matter as
described in the background, as such it can be issued as an Explanation.
A sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective if it generates risks or opportunities
that have a material influence or could reasonably be expected to have a material influence, on
the undertaking’s development, financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to
finance or cost of capital over the short-, medium- or long-term (ESRS 1 paragraph 49). When
assessing a risk or opportunity for (financial) materiality the undertaking considers the
perspective of the investors (ESRS 1 paragraph 48).
The assessment ‘… shall be based on a combination of (i) the likelihood of occurrence and (ii) the
potential magnitude of financial effects determined on the basis of appropriate thresholds.’ (see
ESRS 1 paragraph AR 15).
The time horizon may affect the magnitude of a financial effect via the discounting of financial
effects expected to arise at a future date. Financial effects are generally assessed by investors for
their magnitude in terms of net present value. The consideration of the time horizon is based on
the time-value of money / the discounted cash-flow method in line with investors’ information
needs: a cash-inflow / (cash-outflow) is worth more / (less) now, than the same cash-flow at a
future date due to its earnings potential in the interim.
However, there are cases when effects that are expected to arise in the long term and/or more
uncertain financial effects, should be assessed based on the undiscounted expected amounts.
The longer the time horizon, the more uncertain is its outcome. There might be situations when
discounting might make figures irrelevant or the financial effects might be - due to their
uncertainty of occurrence in either the short-, medium- or long-term -not accessible to
discounting (e.g., a flooding in an area exposed to it) but the undiscounted financial effects would
nevertheless be relevant for investors. This is also acknowledged in ESRS E1 Disclosure
Requirement E1-9 paragraphs 67 and 68 for anticipated financial effects:
’67. … The low probability, high severity and long-term time horizons of some climate-
related physical risk exposures and the uncertainty arising from the transition to a
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 9 of 32
Log of explanations
sustainable economy mean that there will be associated material anticipated financial
effects that are outside the scope of the requirements of applicable accounting standards.
68. Currently, there is no commonly accepted methodology to assess or measure how
material physical risks and transition risks may affect the undertaking’s future financial
position, financial, performance and cash flows.’
See also IFRS S1 B 24 (cited below in the Supporting material): ‘For example, this might happen if
information about a particular sustainability-related risk or opportunity is highly scrutinised by
primary users of an entity’s general purpose financial reports’.
Judgements, estimates and assumption made when considering time value of money shall
consider connectivity of information (see ESRS 1 chapter 9.2 Connected information and
connectivity with financial statements) noting that when measuring assets or liabilities in financial
statements time value of money is often considered.
Time horizon may also affect the assessment of likelihood of a financial effect. When looking at
the likelihood of financial effects, factoring the time horizon may have conceptually
different effects. There are instances where a higher likelihood is associated with a specific time
horizon. Consider the risk of impairing an asset due to the end of its useful life for a potential ban
of a specific technology starting from a given period in the future. The likelihood of a risk arising
might be affected by whether the ban is expected in the near or in the further future. However,
if the ban is already decided (there is no uncertainty), the financial effect is not affected by
likelihood (probability of occurrence is 100%) and the time horizon only affects the magnitude
(not the likelihood).
In other instances, the longer the time horizon, the higher the likelihood of an event happening
(the higher the likelihood of the associated risk or opportunity). For example, a flooding or a
situation of water stress is less likely to occur during the short-term one-year time horizon as
compared to the longer mid-term and long-term time horizons.
Supporting material
IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure for Sustainability-related Financial Information B19
– B24 states:
Identifying material information
B19 Materiality judgements are specific to an entity. Consequently, this Standard does not
specify any thresholds for materiality or predetermine what would be material in a
particular situation.
B20 To identify material information about a sustainability-related risk or opportunity, an entity
shall apply, as the starting point, the requirements of the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure
Standard that specifically applies to that sustainability-related risk or opportunity. In the
absence of an IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standard that specifically applies to a
sustainability-related risk or opportunity, the entity shall apply the requirements on
sources of guidance specified in paragraphs 57⁠–⁠58. Those sources specify information,
including metrics, that may be relevant to a particular sustainability-related risk or
opportunity, to a particular industry or in specified circumstances.
B21 An entity shall assess whether the information identified in applying paragraph B20, either
individually or in combination with other information, is material in the context of the
entity’s sustainability-related financial disclosures taken as a whole. In assessing whether
information is material, an entity shall consider both quantitative and qualitative factors.
For example, an entity might consider the magnitude and the nature of the effect of a
sustainability-related risk or opportunity on the entity.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 10 of 32
Log of explanations
B22 In some cases, IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards require the disclosure of
information about possible future events with uncertain outcomes. In judging whether
information about such possible future events is material, an entity shall consider:
(a) the potential effects of the events on the amount, timing and uncertainty of the
entity’s future cash flows over the short, medium and long term (referred to as ‘the
possible outcome’); and
(b) the range of possible outcomes and the likelihood of the possible outcomes within
that range.
B23 When considering possible outcomes, an entity shall consider all pertinent facts and
circumstances. Information about a possible future event is more likely to be judged as
being material if the potential effects are significant and the event is likely to occur.
However, an entity shall also consider whether information about low-probability and high-
impact outcomes might be material either individually or in combination with information
about other low-probability and high-impact outcomes. For example, an entity might be
exposed to several sustainability-related risks, each of which could cause the same type of
disruption—such as disruption to the entity’s supply chain. Information about an individual
source of risk might not be material if disruption from that source is highly unlikely to occur.
However, information about the aggregate risk—the risk of supply chain disruption from
all sources—might be material.
B24 If a possible future event is expected to affect an entity’s cash flows, but only many years
in the future, information about that event is usually less likely to be judged material than
information about a possible future event with similar effects that are expected to occur
sooner. However, in some circumstances, an item of information could reasonably be
expected to influence primary users’ decisions regardless of the magnitude of the potential
effects of the future event or the timing of that event. For example, this might happen if
information about a particular sustainability-related risk or opportunity is highly scrutinised
by primary users of an entity’s general purpose financial reports.
ID 870 – Materiality threshold for group company
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
Is it technically possible to identify consolidated issues and establish a "consolidated" materiality
matrix for a group comprising several companies operating in various sectors of activity by
averaging the issues?
ESRS Reference
ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the basis for sustainability disclosures and paragraph 102
Key terms
Consolidated reporting
Background
ESRS 1 paragraph 102 states: ‘When the undertaking is reporting at a consolidated level, it shall
perform its assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities for the entire consolidated
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 11 of 32
Log of explanations
group, regardless of its group legal structure. It shall ensure that all subsidiaries are covered in a
way that allows for the unbiased identification of material impacts, risks and opportunities.
Criteria and thresholds for assessing an impact, risk or opportunity as material shall be
determined based on chapter 3 of this Standard.’
Answer
No, when assessing for materiality the impacts, risks and opportunities of different subsidiaries
operating in different sectors, they should not be averaged but assessed in their own right. This
is because the assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities is agnostic whether the
business activities are conducted in a group comprising several subsidiaries operating in various
sectors of activity or whether those same business activities are all conducted by one legal entity
being active in various sectors.
As stated in ESRS 1 paragraph 102 ‘when the undertaking is reporting at a consolidated level, it
shall perform its assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities for the entire
consolidated group, regardless of its group legal structure. …’.
IG 1 Materiality assessment states in paragraph 125 in respect of thresholds for impacts, risk or
opportunities of subsidiaries operating in various sectors: ‘When performing the materiality
assessment at a group level , paragraph 103 [of ESRS 1] does not require the adoption for a given
sustainability matter of a common threshold that is the same for the group in its entirety but
rather to adopt an approach that is at the same time consistent across the whole group and
unbiased, i.e., able to capture the specificities that may exist in a specific subsidiary.’
IG 1 Materiality assessment states in paragraph 128 for matters assessed to be material for some
subsidiaries in isolation but not for the group in its entirety: ‘Conversely, in addition to disclosing
information about matters that are material for the group in its entirety, there may be situations
where a matter is assessed to be material for some subsidiaries in isolation but, despite the
aggregation of data of such subsidiaries, the matter is assessed as not material for the group in
its entirety.’
Reference is made to IG 1 Materiality assessment chapter 3.6.3 Consideration for groups and
subsidiaries and FAQ 13: Performing the impact materiality assessment when the undertaking
operates in different sectors mentioning a top-down, a bottom-up approach, or a combination of
the two approaches for the materiality assessment in group situations.
ID 923 – Phase-in entity specific disclosures
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
Do undertakings need to include entity-specific disclosures for the first three years of reporting?
ESRS Reference
ESRS 1 paragraph 131
Key terms
Phase-in provisions; entity-specific disclosures
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 12 of 32
Log of explanations
Background
ESRS 1 paragraph 131 states: ‘When defining its entity-specific disclosures, the undertaking may
adopt transitional measures for their preparation in the first three annual sustainability
statements under which it may as a priority:
(a) introduce in its reporting those entity-specific disclosures that it reported in prior periods,
if these disclosures meet or are adapted to meet the qualitative characteristics of
information referred to under chapter 2 of this Standard; and
(b) complement its disclosures prepared on the basis of the topical ESRS with an appropriate
set of additional disclosures to cover sustainability matters that are material for the
undertaking in its sector(s), using available best practice and/or available frameworks or
reporting standards, such as IFRS industry-based guidance and GRI Sector Standards.
Answer
Yes, entity specific disclosures are required for the first three years of reporting the sustainability
information.
ESRS 1 paragraph 131 only gives a three-year transition period for the preparation of the entity-
specific disclosures under which the undertaking may as a priority derive those measures from
ESRS 1 paragraph (a) or (b). ESRS paragraph 131 does not provide a phase-in for entity-specific
provisions in general.
Reference is made to ESRS 1 chapter 10.2 Transitional provision related to chapter 5 value chain
taking precedence.
ID 952 – Metrics – rounding and decimals; materiality of information
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
To how many decimals should a percentage be rounded? And for other data points that ask for
"decimal", how many decimals are expected?
ESRS Reference
All numerical datapoints required by ESRS
Key terms
Decimals, materiality
Background
ESRS 1 paragraph 34 states: ‘When disclosing information on metrics for a material sustainability
matter according to the Metrics and Targets section of the relevant topical ESRS, the undertaking:
(c) shall include the information prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement if it assesses such
information to be material; and
(d) may omit the information prescribed by a datapoint of a Disclosure Requirement if it
assesses such information to be not material and concludes that such information is not
needed to meet the objective of the Disclosure Requirement.’
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 13 of 32
Log of explanations
Answer
ESRS does not have specific rules for rounding or prescribe the number of decimals to be used for
percentages.
ESRS 1 paragraph 34 clarifies that materiality of information applies to metrics. Accordingly,
materiality of information also applies to rounding and decimals to be used for a percentage-
metric. The undertaking may omit decimals and use rounding if it considers the information not
conveyed through omitting decimals and using rounding to be not material.
Materiality of information needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis depending on the fact
pattern such as, the size of the company, the metric to be disclosed and the materiality of the
topic.
ID 968 – Ecolabel
Category
Cross-cutting
Question asked
If a company's metric is verified by an Ecolabel, can the Ecolabel be mentioned as an external
body?
ESRS Reference
ESRS 2 paragraph 77 (b)
Key terms
Ecolabel; external body
Background
For information on ‘Ecolabel’ please refer for example to Ecolabel.
ESRS 2 paragraph 77 states: ‘For each metric, the undertaking shall: …
(b) disclose whether the measurement of the metric is validated by an external body other than
the assurance provider and, if so, which body
Answer
Yes, if a company's metric is verified by an Ecolabel, and assuming that the Ecolabel is not an
internal body of the undertaking, the Ecolabel can be mentioned as an external body.
According to ESRS 2 paragraph 77 (b), the undertaking is required to disclose whether the
measurement of the metric is validated by an external body other than the assurance provider
and to specify which body.
ID 1013 - Variable remuneration potential discrepancy between ESRS 2 and
ESRS E1?
Category
x-cutting
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 14 of 32
Log of explanations
Question asked
(1) Is the ESRS 1 Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 on ‘the proportion of variable remuneration
dependent on sustainability-related targets and/or impacts’ (ESRS 2 paragraph (d))
calculated as a percentage of:
(a) variable remuneration;
(b) fixed remuneration; or
(c) total remuneration (fixed and variable)?
(2) Is the percentage to be disclosed under ESRS E1 Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2
GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes calculated on
the same denominator as under question 1) above?
ESRS Reference
ESRS 2 paragraph 29 (d) and ESRS E1 paragraph 13
Key terms
remuneration; remuneration, fixed and variable; annual total remuneration
Background
The question received: ‘in E1.GOV-3_02 requirement, could you please precise whether the
required % of current remuneration related to sustainability shall be calculated: (i) as a % of
variable remuneration, (ii) as a % of fixed remuneration, (iii) as a % of total remuneration (fixed +
variable)’ has been modified to the above for clarity. The submitter provided the following answer
to the question: ‘Drawing a parallel between ESRS E1.GOV-3_02 and the ESRS 2 GOV-3_05, I
would assume the % of current remuneration related to sustainability asked shall be calculated
as a % of variable remuneration.’
ESRS 2 paragraph 29 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose …: …
(d) the proportion of variable remuneration dependent on sustainability-related targets
and/or impacts; …’
ESRS E1 paragraph 13 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose … the percentage of remuneration
recognised in the current period that is linked to climate-related considerations and …’
Annual total remuneration is defined in the Annex II Acronyms and glossary of terms: ‘Annual
total remuneration to own workforce includes salary, bonus, stock awards, option awards, non-
equity incentive plan compensation, change in pension value, and nonqualified deferred
compensation earnings provided over the course of a year.’
Answer
(1) Is the ESRS 1 Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 on ‘the proportion of variable remuneration
dependent on sustainability-related targets and/or impacts’ (ESRS 2 paragraph 29 (d))
calculated:
(d) as a percentage of variable remuneration;
(e) as a percentage of fixed remuneration; or
(f) as a percentage of total remuneration (fixed and variable)?
The ESRS 2 paragraph 29 (d) metric shall be calculated as (a) a percentage of variable
remuneration.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 15 of 32
Log of explanations
ESRS 2 paragraph 29 (d) requires the ‘proportion of variable remuneration dependent on
sustainability-related targets and/or impacts’ to be disclosed. According to this wording the
nominator is the proportion of the variable remuneration dependent on sustainability-related
targets and/or impacts, and the denominator is the variable remuneration.
Though not explicitly stated in ESRS 2 Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 (paragraph 29 (d)) it shall
be assumed that remuneration is the amount recognized in the current period, i.e., the amount
recognized as expense (i.e., independent on whether paid out or not) under the applicable
accounting GAAP in the financial statements considering connectivity with financial statements,
in line with the elements listed in the definition of ‘annual total remuneration’ in Annex II, and
consistent with ESRS E1 paragraph 13 which explicitly refers to the ‘remuneration recognized’.
(2) Is the percentage to be disclosed under ESRS E1 Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2
GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes calculated
on the same denominator as under question 1) above?
No, it is not. The ESRS E1 paragraph 13 metric shall be calculated as a percentage of total
remuneration.
ESRS E1 paragraph 13 requires the ‘percentage of remuneration recognised’ to be disclosed. The
phrase used requires that the denominator is the remuneration recognised, accordingly the total
of fixed and variable remuneration recognised, and the nominator is the ‘remuneration
recognised … that is linked to climate-related considerations’.
To note: There is no reason that the term ‘remuneration’ as used in both ESRS 1 paragraph 29
and ESRS E1 paragraph 13 in respect of the administrative, management, and supervisory bodies
is not to be read as being consistent with the definition of ‘annual total remuneration’ as defined
in the Annex II Acronyms and glossary of terms in respect of own workforce.
For the attention of SRB:
The ESRS E1 requirement is in line with the IFRS S2 equivalent ESRS E1 para 13 is a specification
of ESRS 2 para 29 therefore the expectation would be (and the intent of the authors of ESRS
E1 also was) that the percentage is based on variable remuneration alone.
TEG considered that it would be best to align ESRS 2 and ESRS E1, unless this would create an
issue of interoperability.
Environmental
ID 283 – Is waste incineration a disposal operation
Category
Environment
Question asked
Is incineration with energy recovery considered waste diverted or waste disposed?
ESRS reference
ESRS E5 paragraph 37
Key terms
Waste; waste incineration; waste recovery; waste disposal
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 16 of 32
Log of explanations
Background
ESRS E5 paragraph 37 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose the following information on
its total amount of waste from its own operations, in tonnes or kilogrammes:
(a) the total amount of waste generated;
(b) the total amount by weight diverted from disposal, with a breakdown between
hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste and a breakdown by the following
recovery operation types:
i. preparation for reuse;
ii. recycling; and
iii. other energy recovery;
(c) the amount by weight directed to disposal by waste treatment type and the total
amount summing all three types, with a breakdown between hazardous waste and
non-hazardous waste. The waste treatment types to be disclosed are:
i. incineration;
ii. landfill; and
iii. other disposal operations;
(a) the total amount and percentage of non-recycled waste.’
Waste is defined in Annex II Glossary of acronyms and terms as: ‘Any substance or object which
the holder discards or intends or is required to discard.’ This definition refers to Article 3(1) of the
Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on
waste and repealing certain Directives (Waste Framework Directive or WFD) the WFD.
Incineration is defined in Annex II Glossary of acronyms and terms as: ‘The controlled burning of
waste at high temperature with or without energy recovery.’
Recovery is defined in Annex II Glossary of acronyms and terms as: ‘Any operation the principal
result of which is waste serving a useful purpose by replacing other materials which would
otherwise have been used to fulfil a particular function, or waste being prepared to fulfil that
function, in the plant or in the wider economy.’ This definition refers to article 3(15) of the WFD.
Likewise, article 3(15a) of the WFD on the definition of material recovery states that ‘”material
recovery” means any recovery operation, other than energy recovery and the reprocessing into
materials that are to be used as fuels or other means to generate energy’.
In addition, ESRS E5 Disclosure Requirement 5-1 requires an undertaking to consider whether and
how its policies address the waste hierarchy (as per Art. 4(1) of the WFD: (a) prevention; (b)
preparing for re-use; (c) recycling; (d) other recovery, e.g., energy recovery; and (e) disposal.
The WFD also provides a list of Disposal and Recovery Operations in its Annex I and Annex II,
respectively. While incineration is included in Annex I of disposal operations (“D10 Incineration
on land”), Annex II on recovery includes operation “R1 Use principally as fuel or other means to
generate energy”. This category potentially includes co-incineration where wastes are burned for
their fuel content and a note is also included allowing the inclusion of Municipal Solid Waste
(MSW) incineration provided that a certain level of energy efficiency is achieved.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 17 of 32
Log of explanations
Answer
Incineration is to be treated as a recovery operation, if it meets the conditions to be considered
as an ‘R1 Use principally as fuel or other means to generate energy’ operation, according to Annex
II of the Waste Framework Directive. In this case, it shall be considered as an ‘other energy
recovery’ under ESRS E5 paragraph 37 (b) (iii).
If the conditions in which incineration occurs are conducive to its classification as a ‘D10
incineration on land’ operation (Annex II of the Waste Framework Directive), then it shall be
classified as a disposal operation.
Supporting material
Please see also Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19
November 2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives (Waste Framework Directive or WFD).
ID 472 – Major incidents and deposits
Question asked
When are incidents and deposits considered to be ‘major’? Is there a qualitative or quantitative
threshold to consider?
ESRS reference
Disclosure Requirement E2-6 paragraph 40 (b)
Key terms
Anticipated financial effect; major incident; deposit
Background
ESRS E2 paragraph 38 states: 'The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an
understanding of: (a) anticipated financial effects due to material risks arising from pollution -
related impacts and dependencies and how those risks have (or could reasonably be expected to
have) a material influence on the undertaking’s financial position, financial performance, and cash
flows, over the short, medium and long term. …’
ESRS E2 paragraph 39 states: 'The disclosure shall include: (a) a quantification of the anticipated
financial effects in monetary terms before considering pollution-related actions, or where not
possible without undue cost or effort, qualitative information. …’
ESRS E2 paragraph 40 states: ‘The information provided under paragraph 39 (a) shall include: …
(b) operating and capital expenditures incurred in the reporting period in conjunction with
major incidents and deposits’.
ESRS E2 paragraph 15 states: ‘The undertaking shall indicate, with regard to its own operations
and its upstream and downstream value chain, whether and how its policies address the following
areas where material: . . .(c) avoiding incidents and emergency situations’.
ESRS E2 paragraph 41 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose any relevant contextual information
including a description of material incidents and deposits whereby pollution had negative impacts
on the environment and/or is expected to have negative effects on the undertaking’s financial
cash flows, financial position and financial performance with short-, medium- and long-term time
horizons’.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 18 of 32
Log of explanations
The Industrial Emissions Directive, recital 16 stipulates that: ‘The impact of pollution, including
when caused by incidents or accidents, can extend beyond the territory of a Member State. In
such cases, without prejudice to Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council (9), limiting the consequences for human health and the environment of incidents or
accidents and preventing further possible incidents or accidents requires prompt exchange of
information and close coordination between the competent authorities of the Member States
which are or could be affected by such events. Therefore, in the event of any incident or accident
significantly affecting the environment or human health in another Member State, exchange of
information and transboundary and multidisciplinary cooperation between the affected Member
States should be fostered to limit the consequences for the environment and human health and
to prevent further possible incidents or accidents’.
The Industrial Emissions Directive, Art. 7 (b) adds that ‘in the event of any incident or accident
significantly affecting the environment”, “the operator immediately takes the measures to limit
the consequences for human health or the environment and to prevent further possible incidents
or accidents’.
The Seveso-III Directive, Art. 3 paragraph 13 defines a major accident as ‘an occurrence such as a
major emission, fire, or explosion resulting from uncontrolled developments in the course of the
operation of any establishment covered by this Directive, and leading to serious danger to human
health or the environment, immediate or delayed, inside or outside the establishment, and
involving one or more dangerous substances’.
Answer
ESR do not provide a threshold for distinguishing major incidents and deposits from regular
occurrences. The evaluation of incidents should, in all cases, be based on the undertaking’s
materiality assessment and incidents identified as major are likely connected to material impacts
and risks and, therefore, likely to be identified as material. At the same time, incidents of lower
scale can carry material impacts or financial risks and, therefore, be assessed by the undertaking
as material, too.
It is also to be noted that based on the provisions of materiality of information of ESRS 1
paragraph 34 the disclosure of operating and capital expenditures incurred in the reporting
period in conjunction with major incidents and deposits as required by ESRS E2 paragraph 40 (b)
depends more on whether the expenditures are financially material and not on what kind of
major incidents or deposits caused them.
The undertaking may also need to consider the provisions in the Seveso-III Directive on major
accidents, as well as those in the IED 2.0 on incidents and accidents that significantly affect the
environment. The IED, in particular, stipulates that incidents or accident may significantly affect
the environment, and may become a national matter or even extend beyond national borders.
The Seveso-III Directive (used in the development of ESRS E2) explicitly defines major accident
and includes examples that can be considered for reporting. In the cases in which an undertaking's
incidents or accidents fall within the scope of major or significant incidents or accidents according
to existing law (i.e. IED 2.0 and Seveso-III Directive), such incidents and accidents would also be
considered as major incidents according to ESRS. Should any of the undertaking's facilities or
installations not be covered by the IED 2.0 or the Seveso-III Directive, the undertaking can,
nonetheless, consider the definitions provided in those Directives when applying its materiality
assessment.
Supporting material
Directive (EU) 2024/1785 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 April 2024
amending Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 19 of 32
Log of explanations
emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) and Council Directive 1999/31/EC on the
landfill of waste (IED 2.0).
Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control
of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances (Seveso-III Directive).
Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Document for Waste Treatment, EC (2018).
ID 531 – Base year
Category
Environment
Question asked
If the company has an intensity emission reduction target already set with a different base year
than ESRS recommends (e.g.: 2021), but no absolute target yet, is it ok to use the same base year
as for the intensity target, although it does not follow the ESRS recommendation?
Reference
ESRS E1 paragraphs 34 (c) and (d), and AR 25
Key terms
Base year, intensity emission target
Background
ESRS E1 paragraph 34 states: ‘If the undertaking has set GHG emission reduction targets, ESRS 2
MDR-T and the following requirements shall apply: …
(c) the undertaking shall disclose its current base year and baseline value, and from 2030
onwards, update the base year for its GHG emission reduction targets after every five-
year period thereafter. The undertaking may disclose the past progress made in meeting
its targets before its current base year provided that this information is consistent with
the requirements of this Standard;
(d) GHG emission reduction targets shall at least include target values for the year 2030
and, if available, for the year 2050. From 2030, target values shall be set after every
5year period thereafter; …’
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 25 states: ‘When disclosing the information required under paragraph 34(c)
on base year and baseline value: …
(d) the baseline value and base year shall not be changed unless significant changes in
either the target or reporting boundary occur. In such a case, the undertaking shall
explain how the new baseline value affects the new target, its achievement and
presentation of progress over time. To foster comparability, when setting new targets,
the undertaking shall select a recent base year that does not precede the first reporting
year of the new target period by longer than 3 years. For example, for 2030 as the target
year and a target period between 2025 and 2030, the base year shall be selected from
the period between 2022 and 2025; …’
Answer
The following situations might arise:
The undertaking has no target
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 20 of 32
Log of explanations
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 25 (b) does not set a recommendation but a methodological (application)
requirement to set a new target base year, ‘… that does not precede the first reporting year of
the new target period by longer than 3 years. …’. In other words, the base year must be one of
the last three years in which the undertaking has reliably measured its GHG emissions, while
undertaking decarbonization actions. If an undertaking has a GHG emission reduction target, it
shall disclose in absolute value the GHG emission reduction target and its current target base year
and target baseline value.
GHG emission reduction targets shall at least include target values for the year 2030 (ESRS E1
paragraph 34 (d)). For example, for 2030 as the target year and a target period between 2025 and
2030, the base year shall be selected from the period between 2022 and 2025. In accordance with
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 25, to set a target with a baseline figure in 2021, the target would have to
cover the period 2024 to 2030, with 2024 being the first year for reporting on the new target.
For undertakings with a reduction plan in progress at the time the CSRD comes into force, there
is no need to modify the targets if they meet the requirement of ESRS E1. The plans will be revised
and aligned with 2023 (reporting year) once the reduction period is over.
The undertaking already has a target
If an undertaking already has GHG emission reduction targets in place which have been publicly
disclosed, these should not be updated for the purposes of CSRD requirements. The target level
and base year can remain unchanged, until the target is required to be updated, e.g. due to
significant changes in scope or after 2030. Information on these targets should be reported in line
with CSRD requirements. If an undertaking’s pre-existing targets are intensity targets, the CSRD
requirements do not require a new absolute target to be set. Rather, they require, for each
intensity target, an associated absolute target value to be disclosed. This associated absolute
value would be based on the intensity target reduction specified for the pre-existing target.
Case of early achievement:
If an undertaking achieves its target (past target period) earlier than expected, the base year may
be older, provided that this old base year meets the ESRS E1-4 requirements.
Linkage to the implementation guidance on transition plan:
This question will also be covered in the transition plan implementation guidance being
developed by EFRAG.
ID 653 – Microplastics - tires wear
Category
Environment
Question asked
Shall the amount of microplastic that is generated due to tires wear be reported?
ESRS Reference
ESRS E2 (Disclosure Requirement E2-4) paragraphs 28 (b) and AR 20
Key terms
Microplastics; tires wear
Background
ESRS 1 paragraph 11 states: 'In addition to the disclosure requirements laid down in the three
categories of ESRS, when an undertaking concludes that an impact, risk or opportunity is not
covered or not covered with sufficient granularity by an ESRS but is material due to its specific
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 21 of 32
Log of explanations
facts and circumstances, it shall provide additional entity-specific disclosures to enable users to
understand the undertaking’s sustainability-related impacts, risks or opportunities. Application
requirements AR 1 to AR 5 provide further guidance regarding entity-specific disclosures'.
ESRS 1 paragraph 25 states: ‘Performing a materiality assessment (see sections 3.4 Impact
materiality and 3.5 Financial materiality) is necessary for the undertaking to identify the material
impacts, risks and opportunities to be reported’.
EFRAG IG 1 ‘Materiality assessment’ paragraph 27 states: ‘ESRS 1 sets criteria for the materiality
assessment, but not specific thresholds to determine when a matter or information is material or
not. Therefore, the assessment requires the exercise of judgement. The undertaking needs to set
thresholds based on the ESRS 1 criteria, as well as its own specific facts and circumstances . . .’.
ESRS E2-4 paragraph 28 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose the amounts of . . . (b)
microplastics generated or used by the undertaking’.
ESRS E2-4 paragraph AR 20 states: ‘The information to be provided on microplastics under
paragraph 28 (b) shall include microplastics that have been generated or used during production
processes or that are procured, and that leave the undertaking’s facilities as emissions, as
products, or as part of products or services. Microplastics may be unintentionally produced when
larger pieces of plastics like car tires or synthetic textiles wear and tear or may be deliberately
manufactured and added to products for specific purposes (e.g., exfoliating beads in facial or body
scrubs).’
IG 2 ‘Value chain’ paragraph 185 states for ESRS E2-4: 'AR 20 refers to procurement of
microplastics'.
Answer
It depends on the outcome of the undertaking’s materiality assessment including how it applies
appropriate thresholds to determine the information it discloses on metrics (see ESRS 1
paragraph 34).
The materiality assessment of microplastics should cover the whole value chain, including but not
limited to own operations (see also ESRS E2 AR 20), and cover both primary microplastics
(designed to be used in products or manufacturing) and secondary microplastics (generated from
the breakdown of larger plastics, e.g. tires).
If the undertaking identifies microplastics as a material topic in its value chain, e.g. the
downstream value chain, it shall provide, if needed (see ESRS 1 paragraph 11 and AR 1 to 5),
additional disclosures on an entity-specific basis to enable users to understand its impacts, risks
and opportunities (see also IG Value Chain paragraph 185).
If material, then according to ESRS E2-4 undertakings are to report on the amounts of
microplastics that are unintentionally generated when larger pieces of plastics, such as car tires,
wear and tear.
Please refer to ID 411 Microplastics for further clarifications on the value chain coverage.
Supporting material
EFRAG IG 1: Materiality assessment implementation guidance (2024).
EFRAG IG 2: Value chain implementation guidance (2024).
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 22 of 32
Log of explanations
ID 734 – Disclosure of progress in meeting climate-related targets
Category
Environment
Question asked
Is the understanding correct that undertakings can add the amount of emissions reduced before
their new base year to the actual emissions of the new base year and therefore suggest that the
past emissions haven't been realized?
ESRS reference
ESRS E1 paragraphs 34 (c) and AR 25 (d)
Key terms
Progress, climate-related targets
Background
ESRS E1 paragraph 34 (c) states: ‘If the undertaking has set GHG emission reduction targets, ESRS
2 MDR-T and the following requirements shall apply: …
(c) the undertaking shall disclose its current base year and baseline value, and from 2030
onwards, update the base year for its GHG emission reduction targets after every five-
year period thereafter. The undertaking may disclose the past progress made in meeting
its targets before its current base year provided that this information is consistent with
the requirements of this Standard; …’.
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 25 (d) states: ‘When disclosing the information required under paragraph
34 (c) on base year and baseline value: …
(g) when presenting climate-related targets, the undertaking may disclose the progress in
meeting these targets made before its current base year. In doing so, the undertaking
shall, to the greatest extent possible, ensure that the information on past progress is
consistent with the requirements of this Standard. In the case of methodological
differences, for example, regarding target boundaries, the undertaking shall provide a
brief explanation for these differences.’
Answer
No, an undertaking cannot add the amount of emissions reduced before its new base year to the
actual emissions of the new base year, and therefore suggest that the past emissions haven't
been realized.
While undertakings may disclose the progress done in meeting these targets before its current
base year, when doing it, undertakings may disclose quantitative and qualitative information,
e.g.: disclosure of the amount of the emissions reduced, explanation in case of methodological
differences, explanation of alignment with the requirements of the E1 Standard. However, it is
not allowed to add previous emission reductions achieved to the new base year emissions, which
shall be the ones effectively disclosed under the ESRS for the new base year (with no additions or
subtractions).
It is important to note that, even if an undertaking cannot add the amount of emissions reduced
before its new base year, this reduction might have an impact on the future targets set by the
undertaking as it is linked to the sector emission reduction path.
As an example, assuming that the current (new) base year is 2025, the amount of reductions in
Y-1 (i.e., 2024) cannot be added to the 2025 base year as displayed in the following table:
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 23 of 32
Log of explanations
ID 815 – Substances of concern – in articles
Category
Environment
Question asked
The current EU legislation requires to monitor substances of concern in chemicals, but not in
articles. If no (or only partial) information (including due to supplier non responsiveness) is
available on substances of concern contained in the manufactured articles, what should the
company disclose?
ESRS Reference
Disclosure Requirement E2-5 paragraph 34;
Disclosure Requirement E2-5 paragraph AR 28
Key terms
Substances of concern; SoC; procurement; articles
Background
E2 paragraph 15 states: ‘The undertaking shall indicate, with regard to its own operations and its
upstream and downstream value chain, whether and how its policies address the following areas
where material . . .
(b) substituting and minimising the use of substances of concern; and …’
ESRS E2 paragraph AR 13 states: ‘Where actions extend to upstream or downstream value chain
engagements, the undertaking shall provide information on the types of actions reflecting these
engagements.’
ESRS E2 paragraph AR 19 states: ‘The targets may cover the undertaking’s own operations and/or
the value chain.’
ESRS E2 paragraph 34 states: ‘The disclosure required by paragraph 32 shall include the total
amounts of substances of concern that are generated or used during the production or that are
procured, and the total amounts of substances of concern that leave its facilities as emissions, as
products, or as part of products or services split into main hazard classes of substances of
concern.’
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 24 of 32
Log of explanations
ESRS E2 paragraph AR 28 states: ‘In order for the information to be complete, substances in the
undertaking’s own operations and those procured shall be included (e.g., embedded in
ingredients, semi- finished products, or the final product).’
ESRS 1 paragraph 71 states: ‘With reference to policies, actions and targets, the undertaking’s
reporting shall include upstream and/or downstream value chain information to the extent that
those policies, actions and targets involve actors in the value chain. With reference to metrics, in
many cases, in particular for environmental matters for which proxies are available, the
undertaking may be able to comply with the reporting requirements without collecting data from
the actors in its upstream and downstream value chain, especially from SMEs, for example, when
calculating the undertaking’s GHG Scope 3 emissions’.
ESRS 1 paragraph 34 states: ‘When disclosing information on metrics for a material sustainability
matter according to the Metrics and Targets section of the relevant topical ESRS, the
undertaking: …
(b) may omit the information prescribed by a datapoint of a Disclosure Requirement if it
assesses such information to be not material and concludes that such information is not
needed to meet the objective of the Disclosure Requirement.’
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH), Article 3 defines ‘article’ as 'an object which during
production is given a special shape, surface or design which determines its function to a greater
degree than does its chemical composition'. Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH), Article 33 on
the 'Duty to communicate information on substances in articles' states: '1. Any supplier of an
article containing a substance meeting the criteria in Article 57 and identified in accordance with
Article 59(1) in a concentration above 0,1 % weight by weight (w/w) shall provide the recipient of
the article with sufficient information, available to the supplier, to allow safe use of the article
including, as a minimum, the name of that substance. 2. On request by a consumer any supplier
of an article containing a substance meeting the criteria in Article 57 and identified in accordance
with Article 59(1) in a concentration above 0,1 % weight by weight (w/w) shall provide the
consumer with sufficient information, available to the supplier, to allow safe use of the article
including, as a minimum, the name of that substance'.
Answer
Concerning substances of very high concern (SVHC) in articles, Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006
(REACH) requires communicating SVHC content where specific thresholds are exceeded.
If substances of concern in articles represent a material topic for the undertaking:
(b) for the metrics disclosure of ESRS E2 paragraph 34, the undertaking shall consider both
those within its production processes as well as the ones entering its own operations
through procurement as ingredient, semi-finished products, or final products. If the
metric cannot be determined through direct data collection, e.g. by obtaining it from
suppliers, after making a reasonable effort to do so, it shall be estimated by using proxies.
Reference is made to ‘ID 504 – Disclosure Requirements on material metrics when
information is not available; and
(c) the undertaking shall, in any case, report on the related policies, actions, and targets
(PAT) it has in place in relation to the material topic. ESRS E2 in particular provides specific
indications on the extension of the reporting under the PAT to the value chain.
Concerning policies, the undertaking must disclose how (and if) its policies support the
substitution and minimisation of the use of substances of concern. This information is to
be provided also for its upstream and downstream value chain. With regards to actions,
undertakings shall report on upstream and downstream value chain engagements when
present. The extension of targets to value chain entities is, however, optional.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 25 of 32
Log of explanations
To note: Information to be collected from value chain entities can be omitted during a 3 year
phase-in period in accordance with ESRS 1 chapter 10.2 Transitional provision related to chapter
5 Value chain, unless it is prescribed under EU legislation.
Reference is made to [Draft] Question 29 ESRS require undertakings to use estimates if they
cannot obtain all necessary value chain information after having made reasonable efforts to do
so (ESRS 1, General requirements, paragraph 69). What constitutes “reasonable effort”? from the
European Commission O n the interpretation of certain legal provisions in Directive 2013/34/EU
(Accounting Directive).
Supporting material
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December
2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals
(REACH).
ID 831 – Contractual instruments
Category
Environment
Question asked
Should percentage of contractual instruments be calculated in terms of electricity consumption,
not in terms of Scope 2 GHG emissions?
ESRS reference
ESRS E1-6, Application requirement 45 (d)
Key terms
Contractual instruments, Scope 2
Background
ESRS E1 AR paragraph 45 (d) states ‘When preparing the information on gross Scope 2 GHG
emissions required under paragraph 49, the undertaking shall: …
(d) apply the location-based and market-based methods to calculate Scope 2 GHG emissions
and provide information on the share and types of contractual instruments. Location
based method quantifies Scope 2 GHG emissions based on average energy generation
emission factors for defined locations, including local, subnational, or national
boundaries (GHG Protocol, “Scope 2 Guidance”, Glossary, 2015).Market-based method
quantifies Scope 2 GHG emissions based on GHG emissions emitted by the generators
from which the reporting entity contractually purchases electricity bundled with
instruments, or unbundled instruments on their own (GHG Protocol, “Scope 2 Guidance”,
Glossary, 2015); in this case, the undertaking may disclose the share of market-based
scope 2 GHG emissions linked to purchased electricity bundled with instruments such as
Guarantee of Origins or Renewable Energy Certificates. The undertaking shall provide
information about the share and types of contractual instruments used for the sale and
purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy generation or for
unbundled energy attribute claims. …’
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 26 of 32
Log of explanations
Answer
The percentage of contractual instruments is calculated in terms of the Scope 2 activity data –
this is the consumption of purchased or acquired electricity. The general expression is:
Electricity consumption backed by contractual instruments
% 𝑜𝑓 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 =
Total electricity consumption
Electricity is used in this context as a shorthand for purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam,
and cooling (as per GHG Protocol). There are different types of contractual instruments such
Guarantees of Origin, Renewable Energy Certificates, direct contracts, etc.
ID 832 – Pollutants emissions – changes over time
Category
Environment
Question asked
How can preparers take "the changes over time" into account when disclosing the amounts of
pollutants?
ESRS Reference
Disclosure Requirement E2-4 paragraph 30 (a)
Key terms
Pollution of air, water and soil; microplastics; time; change
Background
ESRS E2 paragraph 30 states: ‘The undertaking shall put its disclosure into context and describe:
(a) the changes over time, …’.
ESRS E2 paragraph AR 25 states: ‘Where the undertaking’s activities are subject to Directive
2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions (IED) (67) and
relevant Best Available Techniques Reference Documents (BREFs), irrespective of whether the
activity takes place within the European Union or not, the undertaking may disclose the following
additional information’.
ESRS E4 paragraph 38 states: ‘The undertaking may disclose metrics that measure: …
(b) changes over time (e.g. 1 or 5 years) in the management of the ecosystem . . .’.
ESRS 1 paragraph 77 provides definitions of three main time intervals for the undertaking to
adopt: short-term, corresponding to the ‘reporting period in its financial statements’; medium-
term, lasting ‘from the end of the short-term reporting period . . . up to 5 years’; and long-term
for periods of ‘more than 5 years’.
ESRS 1 paragraph 74 states: ‘The undertaking shall establish appropriate linkages in its
sustainability statement between retrospective and forward-looking information, when relevant,
to foster a clear understanding of how historical information relates to future-oriented
information’.
ESRS 2 Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 paragraph 48 (c) (iii) states the undertaking shall disclose:
‘the reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts’.
Answer
When disclosing the amounts of pollutants, preparers need to always give due consideration to
the ESRS 1 paragraph 77 provision on establishing appropriate linkages with their sustainability
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 27 of 32
Log of explanations
statements between past, present and future information when relevant, to allow for a better
understandability of how its historical information relates to current and to future-oriented
information.
It is to be noted that the implementation of pollution prevention and pollution control measures,
and the adoption of BATs can lead to significant changes over time of the amounts, types and
form of pollutant releases which provide relevant contextual information to the disclosure of
metrics. As no specific indication is provided on the type of changes that undertakings need to
report in regard to pollutants emissions, an approach shall be selected that supports
understandability and comparability over time (see ESRS 1 chapter 2 Qualitative characteristics
of information) and that considers the materiality of the pollution (materiality concept).
Additionally, although no specific example is provided for ESRS Disclosure Requirement E2-4,
preparers may consider the one given under ESRS Disclosure Requirement E4-5 for metrics on
biodiversity, which suggests looking into changes expressed as a variation from one year to the
next (short-term) or in 5-year intervals (medium-term).
ID 873 – Transport of removed GHGs
Category
Environment
Question asked
What is the meaning and what to report in "transport of removed GHGs"?
ESRS Reference
ESRS E1 Disclosure Requirement E1-7 paragraph AR 57 (b)
Key terms
GHG removals and storage; transport
Background
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 57 states: ‘When disclosing the information on GHG removals and storage
from the undertaking’s own operations and its upstream and downstream value chain required
under paragraphs 56 (a) and 58, for each removal and storage activity, the undertaking shall
describe: …
(b) whether removal and storage are biogenic or from land-use change (e.g., afforestation,
reforestation, forest restoration, urban tree planting, agroforestry, building soil carbon,
etc.), technological (e.g., direct air capture), or hybrid (e.g., bioenergy with CO2 capture
and storage), and technological details about the removal, the type of storage and, if
applicable, the transport of removed GHGs; …’
Answer
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 57 requires a description of ‘technological details about the removal, the
type of storage and, if applicable, the transport of removed GHGs.’ For some removal
technologies (BECS, DACS), transport of the captured to the storage is necessary. The technical
details of both storage and transportation are included in the technological details relevant to the
GHG removals in this example and shall therefore be reported if applicable. For an explanation of
GHG removals and storage, please see explanation ID 432 Net zero target and GHG removals.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 28 of 32
Log of explanations
ID 882 – Data availability for biogenic emissions in Scope 3
Category
Environment
Question asked
Can a preparer state that data for biogenic emissions in Scope 3 is ‘not available’ as it is specifically
possible for Scope 2 biogenic emissions?
ESRS Reference
Disclosure Requirement E1-6 AR45 (e) and E1-6 AR46 (j); ESRS 2 Chapter 5.2 Estimation using
sector averages and proxies
Key terms
Biogenic emissions; Scope 2; Scope 3; data availability; proxies; value chain
Background
According to ESRS E1 AR 45 (e), the undertaking shall ‘disclose biogenic emissions of CO2 carbon
from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass separately from the Scope 2 GHG emissions
but include emissions of other types of GHG (in particular CH4 and N2O). In case the emission
factors applied do not separate the percentage of biomass or biogenic CO2, the undertaking shall
disclose this. In case GHG emissions other than CO2 (particularly CH4 and N2O) are not available
for, or excluded from, location-based grid average emissions factors or with the market-based
method information, the undertaking shall disclose this.’
In addition to scope 2 emissions, ESRS E1 AR 46 (j), requires the undertaking to report biogenic
Scope 3 Emissions separately. ESRS E1 paragraph AR 46 (j) states that the undertaking shall
‘disclose biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass that occur
in its upstream and downstream value chain separately from the gross Scope 3 GHG emissions,
and include emissions of other types of GHG (such as CH4 and N2O), and emissions of CO2 that
occur in the life cycle of biomass other than from combustion or biodegradation (such as GHG
emissions from processing or transporting biomass) in the calculation of Scope 3 GHG
emissions;’.
On emissions in the value chain, ESRS 1 paragraphs 69 and 71 states that:
‘69. There are circumstances where the undertaking cannot collect the information about its
upstream and downstream value chain as required by paragraph 63 after making reasonable
efforts to do so. In these circumstances, the undertaking shall estimate the information to be
reported about its upstream and downstream value chain, by using all reasonable and supportable
information, such as sector-average data and other proxies.’ [and]
’71. […] With reference to metrics, in many cases, in particular for environmental matters for
which proxies are available, the undertaking may be able to comply with the reporting
requirements without collecting data from the actors in its upstream and downstream value
chain, especially from SMEs, for example, when calculating the undertaking’s GHG Scope 3
emissions.’
Answer
For scope 3 emissions, the undertaking cannot choose to omit the data if no suitable emission
factors are available.
However, ESRS 1 paragraphs 69 and 71 state that the undertaking may be allowed to use sector
averages or proxies to estimate value chain information. This also applies to biogenic emissions
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 29 of 32
Log of explanations
in scope 3. Conversely, a statement of omittance can be used to report biogenic emissions in
scope 2 if this data is unavailable.
Therefore, if deemed material information, preparers are required to estimate the Scope 3
biogenic emissions using sector averages and other proxies. However, it is likely that in many
cases, biogenic Scope 3 emissions may be deemed non-material information as per paragraph 31
of ESRS 1.
[NOTE: The secretariat considers it is relevant to cover such case, as it is likely that all value-chains
will have some biogenic scope 3 emissions, however, it is unlikely that these will be material
information for a large majority of companies. To our knowledge, Scope 3 biogenic emissions is a
considerably under-reported category at the moment]. Conversely, a statement of omittance can
be used to report biogenic emissions in scope 2 if this data is unavailable.
ID 893– Conversion factor fossil fuels
Category
Environment
Question asked
Which indicators are to be used to convert fossil fuels to kWh (gasoline, diesel, natural gas)?
ESRS reference
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 32
Key terms
Conversion factors, fossil fuels
Background
The submitter also asked about the ‘conversion of air conditioning refrigerants to kWh.’ As there
is no need to convert air conditioning refrigerants into energy units, this question is not
addressed.
ESRS E1 paragraph AR 32 states: ‘When preparing the information on energy consumption
required under paragraph 35, the undertaking shall: …
(c) ensure all quantitative energy-related information is reported in either Mega-Watthours
(MWh) in Lower Heating Value or net calorific value. If raw data of energy related
information is only available in energy units other than MWh (such as Giga Joules (GJ) or
eritish Thermal Units (etu)), in volume units (such as cubic feet or gallons) or in mass units
(such as kilograms or pounds), they shall be converted to MWh using suitable conversion
factors (see for example Annex II of the Fifth Assessment IPCC report). Conversion factors
for fuels shall be made transparent and applied in a consistent manner;’.
Answer
Conversion factors for the energy content of fuels (so-called heating or calorific values) need to
be used when preparing information on energy consumption. Heating values can be direct or
indirect data, originate from multiple sources, and be expressed in different ways (e.g., energy
per weight or energy per volume).
Direct data on heating values will result from the analysis of the heat content of fuels used and
from which a conversation factor is derived. This is typically done by very large energy consumers
(and emitters) who need to know well the fuels they use, for example, power production from
fossil fuels.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 30 of 32
Log of explanations
Indirect data on heating values can comprise, for example, data from fuel suppliers, national
statistics data or engineering/technical factors representing usually accepted average figures for
each fuel type, often reported as ranges (e.g. biodiesel 39–41 MJ/kg).
Common sources of indirect data for heating values are:
(a) 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (Table 1.2, page 1.18), also
used as a reference for Annex VI of the EU ETS Monitoring and reporting regulation;
(b) The UN Energy Statistics Yearbook, which provides statistical series of Heating values for
different fuels and countries (see the supplement to the 2021 Energy Statistics
Database);
(c) GHG national inventories reports (NIR) submitted to the UNFCCC; and
(d) Publications from energy statistics by the national statistics or energy authorities.
(e) It is important to note that calorific value changes accross juridictions.
Governance
ID 800 Corruption and Bribery
Category
Governance
Question asked
Does an undertaking need to disclose the total number of incidents of corruption, and the total
number of incidents of bribery? Or is there some additional data needed around "nature" of each
of those types?
ESRS Reference
ESRS G1-4 paragraphs 24 and 25
Key terms
Corruption/bribery
Background
ESRS G1 paragraph 24 states: ‘The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) the number of convictions and the amount of fines for violation of anti-corruption and
anti- bribery laws; and
(b) any actions taken to address breaches in procedures and standards of anti-corruption and
anti-bribery.’
ESRS G1 paragraph 25 states the following: ‘The undertaking may disclose: (a) the total number
and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery; …’
Answer
There is no requirement to distinguish between convictions or fines for corruption and those for
bribery in paragraph 24 of ESRS G1. Additional information about the nature of the conviction or
fine is voluntary.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 31 of 32
Log of explanations
‘Confirmed incidents of corruption/bribery’ is the subject of voluntary disclosures per paragraph
25 of ESRS G1 which requires disclosure of the nature. There is no concept of ‘incidents of
corruption or bribery’ in ESRS.
SRB 16 October 2024 Page 32 of 32