ESRS E2 POLLUTION
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2
IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related
impacts, risks and opportunities
o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution
o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets
related to pollution o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution
of air, water and soil
o Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high
concern
o Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related
impacts, risks and opportunities
Appendix A: Application Requirements ESRS
2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure
Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution
o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets
related to pollution o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution
of air, water and soil
o Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high
concern
o Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related,
risks and opportunities
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify Disclosure Requirements which will enable users of
the sustainability statement to understand:
(a) how the undertaking affects pollution of air, water and soil, in terms of material positive
and negative actual or potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent or mitigate actual or
potential negative impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the plans and capacity of the undertaking to adapt its strategy and business model in
line with the transition to a sustainable economy and with the need to prevent, control
1
and eliminate pollution. This is to create a toxic-free environment with zero pollution also
in support of the EU Action Plan “Towards a Zero Pollution for Air, Water and Soil”;
(d) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities related
to the undertaking’s pollution-related impacts and dependencies, as well as the
prevention, control, elimination or reduction of pollution, including where this results from
the application of regulations, and how the undertaking manages this; and
(e) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of
material risks and opportunities arising from the undertaking’s pollution-related impacts
and dependencies.
2. This Standard sets out Disclosure Requirements related to the following sustainability matters:
pollution of air, water, soil, substances of concern, including substances of very high
concern.
3. “Pollution of air” refers to the undertaking’s emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and
prevention, control and reduction of such emissions.
4. “Pollution of water” refers to the undertaking’s emissions to water, and prevention, control and
reduction of such emissions.
5. “Pollution of soil” refers to the undertaking’s emissions into soil and the prevention, control
and reduction of such emissions.
6. With regard to “substances of concern”, this standard covers the undertaking’s production, use
and/or distribution and commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of
very high concern. Disclosure Requirements on substances of concern aim at providing users
with an understanding of actual or potential impacts related to such substances, also taking
account of possible restrictions on their use and/or distribution and commercialisation.
Interaction with other ESRS
7. The topic of pollution is closely connected to other environmental sub-topics such as climate
change, water and marine resources, biodiversity and circular economy. Thus, to provide
a comprehensive overview of what could be material to pollution, relevant Disclosure
Requirements are covered in other environmental Standards as follows:
(a) ESRS E1 Climate change which addresses the following seven greenhouse gases
connected to air pollution: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O),
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and
nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).
(b) ESRS E3 Water and marine resources which addresses water consumption, in
particular in areas at water risk, water recycling and storage. This also includes the
responsible management of marine resources, including the nature and quantity of
marine resources-related commodities (such as gravels, deep-sea minerals, seafood)
used by the undertaking. This Standard covers the negative impacts, in terms of pollution
of water and marine resources, including microplastics, generated by such activities.
(c) ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems which addresses ecosystems and species.
Pollution as a direct impact driver of biodiversity loss is addressed by this Standard.
(d) ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy which addresses, in particular, the
transition away from extraction of non-renewable resources and the implementation of
practices that prevent waste generation, including pollution generated by waste.
8. The undertaking’s pollution-related impacts may affect people and communities. Material
negative impacts on affected communities from pollution-related impacts attributable to the
undertaking are covered in ESRS S3 Affected communities.
2
9. This Standard should be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements and ESRS 2
General disclosures.
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
10. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with and reported alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2 chapter 4 Impact, risk and opportunity management.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to
identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities
11. The undertaking shall describe the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities
and shall provide information on:
(a) whether the undertaking has screened its site locations and business activities in order
to identify its actual and potential pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities in
its own operations and upstream and downstream value chain, and if so, the
methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening;
(b) whether and how the undertaking has conducted consultations, in particular with affected
communities.
Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution
12. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts, risks and
opportunities related to pollution prevention and control.
13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which
the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or
remediation of material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities.
14. The disclosure required by paragraph 12 shall contain the information on the policies the
undertaking has in place to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to
pollution in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability
matters.
15. The undertaking shall indicate, with regard to its own operations and its upstream and
donwstream value chain, whether and how its policies address the following areas where
material:
(a) mitigating negative impacts related to pollution of air, water and soil including
prevention and control;
(b) substituting and minimising the use of substances of concern, and phasing out
substances of very high concern, in particular for non-essential societal use and in
consumer products; and
(c) avoiding incidents and emergency situations, and if and when they occur, controlling
and limiting their impact on people and the environment.
Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution
3
16. The undertaking shall disclose its pollution-related actions and the resources allocated to their
implementation.
17. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the key actions
taken and planned to achieve the pollution-related policy objectives and targets.
18. The description of the pollution-related action plans and resources shall contain the information
prescribed in ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
19. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-A, the undertaking may specify to which layer in the following
mitigation hierarchy an action and resources can be allocated:
(a) avoid pollution including any phase out of materials or compounds that have a negative
impact (prevention of pollution at source);
(b) reduce pollution, including: any phase-out of materials or compounds; meeting
enforcement requirements such as Best Available Techniques (BAT) requirements; or
meeting the Do No Significant Harm criteria for pollution prevention and control
according to the EU Taxonomy Regulation and its Delegated Acts (minimisation of
pollution); and
(c) restore, regenerate and transform ecosystems where pollution has occurred (control of
the impacts both from regular activities and incidents).
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution
20. The undertaking shall disclose the pollution-related targets it has set.
21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the targets the
undertaking has set to support its pollution-related policies and to address its material
pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities.
22. The description of targets shall contain the information requirements defined in ESRS 2 MDR-
T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets.
23. The disclosure required by paragraph 20 shall indicate whether and how its targets relate to
the prevention and control of:
(a) air pollutants and respective specific loads;
(b) emissions to water and respective specific loads;
(c) pollution to soil and respective specific loads; and
(d) substances of concern and substances of very high concern.
24. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-T, the undertaking may specify whether ecological thresholds (e.g.,
the biosphere integrity, stratospheric ozone-depletion, atmospheric aerosol loading, soil
depletion, ocean acidification) and entity-specific allocations were taken into consideration when
setting targets. If so, the undertaking may specify:
(a) the ecological thresholds identified, and the methodology used to identify such
thresholds;
(b) whether or not the thresholds are entity-specific and if so, how they were determined; and
(c) how responsibility for respecting identified ecological thresholds is allocated in the
undertaking.
25. The undertaking shall specify as part of the contextual information, whether the targets that it
has set and presented are mandatory (required by legislation) or voluntary.
4
Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil
26. The undertaking shall disclose the pollutants that it emits through its own operations, as
well as the microplastics it generates or uses.
27. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the emissions
that the undertaking generates to air, water and soil in its own operations, and of its generation
and use of microplastics.
28. The undertaking shall disclose the amounts of:
(a) each pollutant listed in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European
Parliament and of the Council1 (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register
“EPRTR Regulation”)emitted to air, water and soil, with the exception of emissions of
GHGs which are disclosed in accordance with ESRS E1 Climate Change2; (b)
microplastics generated or used by the undertaking.
29. The amounts referred in paragraph 28 shall be consolidated amounts including the emissions
from those facilities over which the undertaking has financial control and those over which it has
operational control. The consolidation shall include only the emissions from facilities for which
the applicable threshold value specified in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 is exceeded.
30. The undertaking shall put its disclosure into context and describe:
(a) the changes over time,
(b) the measurement methodologies; and
(c) the process(es) to collect data for pollution-related accounting and reporting, including
the type of data needed and the information sources.
31. When an inferior methodology compared to direct measurement of emissions is chosen to
quantify emissions, the reasons for choosing this inferior methodology shall be outlined by the
undertaking. If the undertaking uses estimates, it shall disclose the standard, sectoral study or
sources which form the basis of its estimates, as well as the possible degree of uncertainty and
the range of estimates reflecting the measurement uncertainty.
Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high
concern
32. The undertaking shall disclose information on the production, use, distribution,
commercialisation and import/export of substances of concern and substances of very
high concern, on their own, in mixtures or in articles.
33. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the impact of the
undertaking on health and the environment through substances of concern and through
substances of very high concern on their own. It is also to enable an understanding of the
undertaking’s material risks and opportunities, including exposure to those substances and
risks arising from changes in regulations.
34. The disclosure required by paragraph 32 shall include the total amounts of substances of
concern that are generated or used during the production or that are procured, and the total
1 Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 January 2006 concerning the establishment
of a European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register and amending Council Directives 91/689/EEC and 96/61/EC (OJ L 033
4.2.2006, p. 1)
2 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from: (a) an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #2 in Table II of Annex I
of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Emissions
of air pollutants”); (b) indicator #8 in Table I of Annex I (“Emissions to water); (c) indicator #1 in Table II of Annex I ( “Emissions
of inorganic pollutants”); and (d) indicator #3 in Table II of Annex I (“Emissions of ozone- depleting substances”)
.
5
amounts of substances of concern that leave its facilities as emissions, as products, or as part
of products or services split into main hazard classes of substances of concern.
35. The undertaking shall present separately the information for substances of very high concern.
Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-
related risks and opportunities
36. The undertaking shall disclose the anticipated financial effects of material pollution
related risks and opportunities.
37. The information required by paragraph 36 is in addition to the information on current financial
effects on the undertaking’s, financial position, financial performance and cash flows for the
reporting period required under ESRS 2 SBM-3 para 48 (d).
38. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of:
(a) anticipated financial effects due to material risks arising from pollution-related impacts
and dependencies and how these risks have (or could reasonably be expected to have)
a material influence on the undertaking’s , financial position financial performance and
cash flows, over the short-, medium- and long-term.
(b) anticipated financial effects due to material opportunities related to pollution
prevention and control.
39. The disclosure shall include:
(a) a quantification of the anticipated financial effects in monetary terms before considering
pollution-related actions, or where not possible without undue cost or effort, qualitative
information. For financial effects arising from opportunities, a quantification is not
required if it would result in disclosure that does not meet the qualitative characteristics of
information (see ESRS 1 Appendix B Qualitative characteristics of information);
(b) a description of the effects considered, the related impacts and the time horizons in which
they are likely to materialise; and
(c) the critical assumptions used to quantify the anticipated financial effects, as well as the
sources and level of uncertainty of those assumptions.
40. The information provided under paragraph 38(a) shall include:
(a) the share of net revenue made with products and services that are or that contain
substances of concern, and the share of net revenue made with products and services
that are or that contain substances of very high concern;
(b) the operating and capital expenditures incurred in the reporting period in conjunction with
major incidents and deposits;
(c) the provisions for environmental protection and remediation costs, e.g., for rehabilitating
contaminated sites, recultivating landfills, removal of environmental contamination at
existing production or storage sites and similar measures.
41. The undertaking shall disclose any relevant contextual information including a description of
material incidents and deposits whereby pollution had negative impacts on the environment
and/or is expected to have negative effects on the undertaking’s financial cash flows, financial
position and financial performance with short-, medium- and long-term time horizons.
6
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This Appendix is an integral part of ESRS E2. It supports the application of the disclosure requirements
set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to
identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities
AR 1. When conducting a materiality assessment on environmental subtopics, the undertaking shall
assess the materiality of pollution in its own operations and its upstream and downstream
value chain, and may consider the four phases below, also known as the LEAP approach:
(a) Phase 1: locate where in its own operations and its upstream and downstream value
chain the interface with nature takes place;
(b) Phase 2: evaluate the pollution-related dependencies and impacts;
(c) Phase 3: assess the material risks and opportunities; and
(d) Phase 4: prepare and report the results of the materiality assessment.
AR 2. The materiality assessment for ESRS E2 corresponds to the first three phases of this LEAP
approach. The fourth phase addresses the outcome of the process.
AR 3. The process to assess the materiality of impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities
shall consider the provisions in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and
assess material impacts, risks and opportunities, and IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in
ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement.
AR 4. The sub-topics covered by the materiality assessment under ESRS E2 include:
(a) pollution of air, water and soil (excluding GHG emissions and waste), microplastics,
and substances of concern;
(b) dependencies on ecosystem services that help to mitigate pollution-related impacts.
AR 5. In Phase 1, to locate where in its own operations and its upstream and downstream value
chain the interface with nature takes place, the undertaking may consider:
(a) the site locations of direct assets and operations and related upstream and downstream
activities across the value chain;
(b) the site locations where emissions of water, soil and air pollutants occur; and
(c) the sectors or business units related to those emissions or to the production, use,
distribution, commercialisation and import/export of microplastics, substances of
concern, and substances of very high concern, on their own, in mixtures or in articles.
AR 6. Phase 2 relates to the evaluation of the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies for each
material site or sector/business unit including by assessing the severity and likelihood of
impacts on the environment and human health.
AR 7. In Phase 3, to assess its material risks and opportunities based on the results of Phases 1
and 2, the undertaking may :
7
(a) identify transition risks and opportunities in its own operations and its upstream and
downstream value chain by the categories of:
i. policy and legal: e.g., introduction of regulation, exposure to sanctions and
litigation (e.g., negligence towards ecosystems), enhanced reporting obligations;
ii. technology: e.g., substitution of products or services by products or services with a
lower impact, transition away from substances of concern;
iii. market: e.g., shifting supply, demand and financing, volatility or increased costs of
some substances; and
iv. reputation: e.g., changing societal, customer or community perceptions as a result
of an organisation’s role in pollution prevention and control;
(b) identify physical risks, e.g., sudden interruption of access to clean water, acid rain, or
other pollution incidents that are likely to lead to or that have led to pollution with
subsequent effects on the environment and society;
(c) identify opportunities related to pollution prevention and control categorised by:
i. resource efficiency: decrease quantities of substances used or improve efficiency
of production process to minimise impacts;
ii. markets: e.g., diversification of business activities; iii. financing: e.g., access to
green funds, bonds or loans; iv. resilience: e.g., diversification of substances used
and control of emissions through innovation or technology; and
v. reputation: positive stakeholder relations as a result of a proactive stance on
managing risks.
AR 8. In order to assess materiality, the undertaking may consider Commission Recommendation
(EU) 2021/2279 on the use of the Environmental Footprint methods to measure and
communicate the life cycle environmental performance of products and organisations.
AR 9. When providing information on the outcome of its materiality assessment, the undertaking
shall consider:
(a) a list of site locations where pollution is a material issue for the undertaking’s own
operations and its upstream and downstream value chain; and
(b) a list of business activities associated with pollution material impacts, risks and
opportunities.
Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution
AR 10. The policies described under this Disclosure Requirement may be integrated in broader
environmental or sustainability policies covering different subtopics.
AR 11. The description of the policies shall include information on the pollutant(s) or substance(s)
covered.
AR 12. When disclosing information under paragraph 11, the undertaking may include contextual
information on the relations between its policies implemented and how they may contribute to
the EU Action Plan “Towards a Zero Pollution for Air, Water and Soil” with for instance elements
on:
(a) how it is or may be affected by the targets and measures of the EU Action Plan and the
revision of existing directives (e.g., the Industrial Emissions Directive); (b) how it intends to
reduce its pollution footprint to contribute to these targets.
8
Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution
AR 13. Where actions extend to upstream or downstream value chain engagements, the undertaking
shall provide information on the types of actions reflecting these engagements.
AR 14. When considering resources, examples of operational expenditures could be investments in
research and development to innovate and develop safe and sustainable alternatives to the
use of substances of concern or to decrease emissions in a production process.
AR 15. Where relevant to achieve its pollution-related policy objectives and targets, the undertaking
may provide information on site-level action plans.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution
AR 16. If the undertaking refers to ecological thresholds when setting targets, it may refer to the
guidance provided by the Science-Based Targets Initiative for Nature (SBTN) in its interim
guidance (Initial Guidance for Business, September 2020), or any other guidance with a
scientifically acknowledged methodology that allows setting of science-based targets by
identifying ecological thresholds and, if applicable, entity-specific allocations. Ecological
thresholds can be local, national and/or global.
AR 17. The undertaking may specify whether the target addresses shortcomings related to the
Substantial Contribution criteria for Pollution Prevention and Control as defined in delegated
acts adopted pursuant to Article 14(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. Where the Do No
Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria for Pollution Prevention and Control as defined in delegated
acts adopted pursuant to Article 10(3), Article 11(3), Article 12(2), Article 13(2), and Article 15(2)
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 are not met, the undertaking may specify whether the target
addresses shortcomings related those DNSH criteria.
AR 18. Where relevant to support the policies it has adopted, the undertaking may provide information
on the targets set at site level. AR 19. The targets may cover the undertaking’s own operations and/or
the value chain.
Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil
AR 20. The information to be provided on microplastics under paragraph 28(b) shall include
microplastics that have been generated or used during production processes or that are
procured, and that leave the undertaking’s facilities as emissions, as products, or as part of
products or services. Microplastics may be unintentionally produced when larger pieces of
plastics like car tires or synthetic textiles wear and tear or may be deliberately manufactured
and added to products for specific purposes (e.g., exfoliating beads in facial or body scrubs).
AR 21. The volume of pollutants shall be presented in appropriate mass units, for example tonnes or
kilogrammes.
AR 22. The information required under this Disclosure Requirement shall be provided at the level of
the reporting undertaking. However, the undertaking may disclose additional breakdown
including information at site level or a breakdown of its emissions by type of source, by sector
or by geographical area.
AR 23. When providing contextual information on the emissions, the undertaking may consider:
9
(a) the local air quality indices (AQI) for the area where the undertaking’s air pollution
occurs;
(b) the degree of urbanisation (DEGURBA)3 for the area where air pollution occurs; and
(c) the undertaking’s percentage of the total emissions of pollutants to water and soil
occurring in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress.
AR 24. The information provided under this Disclosure Requirement may refer to information the
undertaking is already required to report under other existing legislation (i.e., IED, E- PRTR,
etc.).
AR 25. Where the undertaking’s activities are subject to Directive 2010/75/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions (IED)4 and relevant Best Available
Techniques Reference Documents (BREFs), irrespective of whether the activity takes place
within the European Union or not, the undertaking may disclose the following additional
information:
(a) a list of installations operated by the undertaking that fall under the IED and EU- BAT
Conclusions;
(b) a list of any non-compliance incidents or enforcement actions necessary to ensure
compliance in case of breaches of permit conditions;
(c) the actual performance, as specified in the EU-BAT conclusions for industrial
installations, and comparison of the undertaking’s environmental performance against
“emission levels associated with the best available techniques” the (BATAEL) as
described in EU-BAT conclusions;
(d) the actual performance of the undertaking against “environmental performance levels
associated with the best available techniques” (BAT-AEPLs) provided that they are
applicable to the sector and installation; and
(e) a list of any compliance schedules or derogations granted by competent authorities
according to Art. 15(4) Directive 2010/75/EU that are associated with the
implementation of BAT-AELs.
Methodologies
AR 26. When providing information on pollutants, the undertaking shall consider approaches for
quantification in the following order of priority:
(a) direct measurement of emissions, effluents or other pollution through the use of
recognised continuous monitoring systems (e.g., AMS Automated Measuring Systems);
(b) periodic measurements;
(c) calculation based on site-specific data;
(d) calculation based on published pollution factors; and (e) estimation.
AR 27. Regarding the disclosure of methodologies required by paragraph 30, the undertaking shall
consider:
(a) whether its monitoring is carried out in accordance with EU BREF Standards or another
relevant reference benchmark; and
3 According to Eurostat, the Degree of urbanisation (DEGURBA) is a classification that indicates the character of an area.
Based on the share of local population living in urban clusters and in urban centres, it classifies Local Administrative Units
(LAU or communes) into three types of area: i) Cities (densely populated areas), ii) Towns and suburbs (intermediate density
areas), and iii) Rural areas (thinly populated areas).
4 Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions (integrated
pollution prevention and control) (OJ L 334, 17.12.2010, p. 17).
10
(b) whether and how the calibration tests of the AMS were undertaken and the verification
of periodic measurement by independent labs were ensured.
Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high
concern
List of substances to be considered
AR 28. In order for the information to be complete, substances in the undertaking’s own operations
and those procured shall be included (e.g., embedded in ingredients, semi- finished products,
or the final product).
AR 29. The volume of pollutants shall be presented in mass units, for example tonnes or kilogrammes
or other mass units appropriate for the volumes and type of pollutants being released.
Contextual information
AR 30. The information provided under this Disclosure Requirement may refer to information the
undertaking is already required to report under other existing legislation (i.e., Directive
2010/75/EU, Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 “E-PRTR”, etc.).
Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-
related risks and opportunities
AR 31. The operating and capital expenditures related to incidents and deposits may include for
instance:
(a) cost for eliminating and remediating the respective pollution of air, water and soil
including environmental protection;
(b) damage compensation costs including payment of fines and penalties imposed by
regulators or government authorities.
AR 32. Incidents may include for instance interruptions of production, whether arising from the supply
chain and/or from own operations, which resulted in pollution.
AR 33. The undertaking may include an assessment of its related products and services at risk over
the short-, medium- and long-term, explaining how these are defined, how financial amounts
are estimated, and which critical assumptions are made.
AR 34. The quantification of the anticipated financial effects in monetary terms under paragraph
38(a) may be a single amount or a range.
11