ESRS–ISSB Standards
Interoperability Guidance
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
This document is provided as educational material. The content of this material does not override or adjust the
requirements as set out in ESRS or ISSB Standards. In the event of apparent conflict, an entity must refer to the
requirements in ESRS and ISSB Standards.
Contents
Introduction 2–3
Section 1 4–6
Section 2 7–13
Section 3 14–18
Section 4 19–31
Annex 32–33
Introduction
The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) and the European Commission
services, together with EFRAG, have worked together during the development of the European
Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS)1 and the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards
(ISSB Standards) to achieve a high degree of alignment of the respective standards, with a
specific focus on climate‑related reporting. Consequently:
• the definition of financial materiality in ESRS is aligned with the definition of materiality in
IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability‑related Financial Information
(see Section 1.1 below);
• the two sets of standards include common defined terms; and
• there is a high degree of alignment of the climate‑related disclosures in the two sets of standards
and, in particular, almost all the disclosures in ISSB Standards related to climate are included
in ESRS.
This joint interoperability guidance describes the alignment of disclosure requirements and
information that an entity starting with each set of standards needs to know to enable compliance
with both sets of standards, ensuring interoperability between them. Regardless of whether it
starts with ESRS or ISSB Standards, an entity can comply with the climate requirements of both
sets of standards by following the content of this interoperability guidance.
Section 1 addresses interoperability at the level of general reporting requirements including
beyond climate. Sections 2, 3 and 4 address interoperability for climate‑related disclosures from
two perspectives:
• an entity applying ESRS that wants (1) to meet also all climate‑related disclosure requirements
in IFRS S2 Climate‑related Disclosures and (2) to apply requirements in IFRS S1 that are
necessary in order to apply IFRS S2 and provide climate‑related disclosures; and
• an entity applying ISSB Standards that wants (1) to meet also all disclosure requirements on
climate change in ESRS E1 and (2) to apply the requirements in ESRS 1 and ESRS 2 that are
relevant to climate disclosure.
1 https://eur‑lex.europa.eu/legal‑content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R2772.
2
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
The goal of this interoperability guidance is to increase efficiency for entities that report under both
sets of standards. The structure and purpose of the document is:
Section 1. Comments on general reporting requirements in ESRS and ISSB Standards.
This section explains how ESRS and ISSB Standards are interoperable with regards to materiality,
presentation and disclosures for sustainability topics other than climate.
Section 2. Common climate‑related disclosures. This section illustrates the high level of
interoperability achieved in relation to climate between ESRS and the corresponding disclosure
requirements in ISSB Standards. This section presents in a tabular form the paragraphs in ISSB
Standards and the corresponding paragraphs in ESRS. As described, intersecting disclosure
requirements in ESRS can be identical (common), or cover at least the disclosure requirements in
IFRS S2, while providing also incremental disclosures.
Section 3. ESRS to IFRS S2 (climate): information that an entity starting with ESRS needs to
know when also applying ISSB Standards to enable compliance with both sets of standards.
Section 4. IFRS S2 (climate) to ESRS: information that an entity starting with ISSB Standards
needs to know when also applying ESRS to enable compliance with both sets of standards.
This section includes in Section 4.2 the disclosures in ESRS E1 that do not have an equivalent
requirement in IFRS S1, nor in IFRS S2 and the incremental requirements in ESRS E1 associated
with common disclosure requirements.
The user of this document should also consider the following aspects when using this
interoperability guidance:
1. this document must be read in conjunction with the relevant standards. An entity cannot
rely on this guidance in isolation to meet the requirements in ESRS or ISSB Standards.
2. this document includes all disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 and ESRS E1. Whether a
specific disclosure requirement must be provided by any specific entity will be subject to
that entity’s facts and circumstances and is subject to materiality (see Section 1).
3. this document does not include the non‑mandatory disclosures (that is, ‘may disclose’) or
non‑mandatory calculation guidance in ESRS or ISSB Standards. It also does not map
paragraphs in ISSB Standards stating the objectives of the disclosure requirements.
4. this document does not cover the general transition requirements in the respective
set of standards, but may refer to a specific transition requirement where relevant for
understanding a related requirement. An entity using the transition provisions in either
set of standards needs to be aware that the specific requirements are different in
ISSB Standards and ESRS.
5. this document was published on 2 May 2024. Future amendments to ESRS or
ISSB Standards may change the analysis within.
6. this document is not a formal statement of equivalence. The latter is in the remit of
public authorities.
3
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Section 1. Comments on general requirements in ESRS and
ISSB Standards
This section contains information relevant for entities applying both ESRS and ISSB Standards to
enable interoperability.
1.1 Materiality
If an entity has determined that information must be provided about a sustainability matter, then
both sets of standards require the disclosure of material information about that matter. This is valid
for climate, as well as for the other sustainability topics under IFRS S1 and under ESRS.
The disclosures to be provided under ISSB Standards, including in relation to climate, are subject
to materiality as defined in ISSB Standards. The disclosures to be provided under ESRS, also
including in relation to climate, are subject to materiality as defined under ESRS, which covers
also the impact materiality lens. An entity reporting under ESRS or ISSB Standards that also
wants to meet the disclosure requirements of ISSB Standards or ESRS, will need to consider the
relevant materiality requirements of ISSB Standards or ESRS respectively.
Under ISSB Standards, materiality is judged on the basis of whether omitting, misstating or
obscuring that information could reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary users
of general purpose financial reports, which provide information about a specific reporting entity
(see paragraphs 18 and B13 of IFRS S1).
Under ESRS, a sustainability matter is material when it meets the criteria defined for impact
materiality or financial materiality, or both (see paragraph 28 of ESRS 1). On financial materiality,
paragraph 48 of ESRS 1 states in particular that information is considered material for primary
users of general purpose financial reports if omitting, misstating or obscuring that information could
reasonably be expected to influence decisions that they make on the basis of the undertaking’s
sustainability statement. The financial materiality assessment in ESRS 1 corresponds to the
identification of information that is material for primary users of general purpose financial reports
in making decisions relating to providing resources to the entity (see paragraph 48 of ESRS 1 and
paragraph 18 of IFRS S1). The definition of information that is considered material for users of
general purpose financial reports is therefore aligned between the two sets of standards.
This alignment means that in assessing whether a particular disclosure is considered material
in applying ISSB Standards, that assessment is aligned with the assessment of whether that
disclosure is financially material in accordance with ESRS, and conversely. When an entity
considers the climate disclosures set out in the standards, an entity that applies ESRS is expected
to be able to identify the disclosures considered material in accordance with ISSB Standards
using the outcome of its ESRS assessment of financial materiality and conversely an entity that
applies ISSB Standards is expected to be able to identify the disclosures in relation to climate
considered to be financially material in accordance with ESRS.
The requirements for assessing the materiality of information and therefore for supporting the
identification of the information to be reported on a material matter (see paragraph 31 of ESRS 1)
is expected, in most cases, to rely on decision‑usefulness. Decision‑usefulness is the basis for the
definition used in IFRS S1 to identify the information to be reported as material (see paragraph 18
of IFRS S1). While in ESRS the double materiality assessment of what is decision‑useful
considers both investors and other stakeholders (including in relation to impact materiality), in
ISSB Standards this assessment is focused on the information needs of investors. On financial
materiality, the two assessments are expected to provide an aligned outcome.
4
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
1.2 Presentation
Paragraphs 111–117 of ESRS 1 require an entity to present sustainability information prepared
in accordance with ESRS in a sustainability statement which is a dedicated section of the
management report identified as such. ESRS 1 (see Appendices D, F and G of ESRS 1) provides
additional details on how to structure and organise the sustainability statement. Subject to the use
of certain provisions regarding the use of incorporation by reference (see paragraphs 119–122 of
ESRS 1), the sustainability statement is therefore the unique location of sustainability disclosures
prepared under ESRS.
IFRS S1 (see paragraphs 60–63) sets out the requirements for an entity in relation to the location
of disclosures. Under an approach designed to be multi‑jurisdictional, the standard explains that
there are various possible locations in which an entity may disclose sustainability‑related financial
information, as long as the information is included in its general purpose financial reports.
The ESRS required location for disclosures meets the principles set by IFRS S1. However,
on the basis of the requirements in ESRS that require a clear identification of the nature of
reported information, an entity starting with ESRS that wishes to comply with ISSB Standards
should pay particular attention, when preparing its human‑readable sustainability statement,
to the requirements in IFRS S1, in particular the requirements about additional information
(see paragraph 62 of IFRS S1). It is expected that digital reporting processes will facilitate further
such identification.
1.3 Disclosures for sustainability topics other than climate
ESRS set specific disclosure requirements on nine different sustainability topics beyond climate,2
each of them covered by a dedicated reporting standard.
IFRS S1 requires an entity to disclose material information about the sustainability‑related risks and
opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s prospects (see paragraph 17
of IFRS S1). At the date of publication of this document, the ISSB has prescribed disclosure
requirements for climate‑related risks and opportunities in IFRS S2. Sustainability topics other
than climate are currently addressed in IFRS S1. IFRS S1 requires an entity to disclose material
information to users of general purpose financial reports about its relevant sustainability‑related
risks and opportunities in accordance with the objectives of IFRS S1. An entity is expected
to exercise appropriate judgement as to the identification of sustainability‑related risks and
opportunities and associated disclosures it provides those users in faithfully representing the
sustainability‑related risk or opportunity.
In this context, paragraph 57 of IFRS S1 states that, in the absence of an IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standard that specifically applies to a sustainability matter and to the related risks
or opportunities, an entity shall apply judgement to identify and prepare the information to be
reported. IFRS S1 sets out the sources that can be used to identify the sustainability‑related
matters to report on and the sources that can be used to identify suitable disclosures. In identifying
appropriate disclosures about an entity’s sustainability‑related risks and opportunities, IFRS S1
states that an entity may refer to and consider the applicability of ESRS (see paragraph C2(b)
of IFRS S1) as a source of guidance, to the extent that ESRS assist the entity in meeting the
objective of IFRS S1 and do not conflict with ISSB Standards.
2 ESRS E2 Pollution, ESRS E3 Water and marine resources, ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems, ESRS E5
Resource use and circular economy, ESRS S1 Own workforce, ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain, ESRS S3
Affected communities, ESRS S4 Consumer and end‑users, and ESRS G5 Business conduct.
5
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Paragraph 3 of IFRS S1 requires an entity to disclose information about all sustainability‑related
risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s prospects. At the
time of publication of this document, for topics beyond climate, as ESRS are listed as a source
of guidance in IFRS S1, an entity is able to utilise ESRS to provide the disclosures required by
IFRS S1, if the requirements in paragraphs C1–C3 of IFRS S1 are also met.
ESRS also make reference to the IFRS industry‑based guidance (which includes the Industry‑based
Guidance on Implementing IFRS S2 and the SASB Standards) and enable an entity to use that
guidance to complement its disclosures prepared applying ESRS to cover sustainability matters
that are material for the undertaking in its sector(s) (see paragraph 131(b) of ESRS 1). Because of
this, the entity using ISSB Standards that also wants to comply with ESRS will be able to leverage
its disclosures prepared following the SASB industry‑specific disclosure topics and metrics that
entities applying ISSB Standards shall refer to and consider (see paragraph 55(a) of IFRS S1),
to the extent that they meet the corresponding requirements in ESRS. An entity that is reporting
under ISSB Standards that also wants to comply with ESRS will also need to apply the general
disclosure requirements in ESRS 1, ESRS 2 and ESRS for topics beyond climate change.
1.4 Reliefs
Both sets of standards include relief clauses. Those clauses are listed in the Annex to this
document. In order to comply with both sets of standards, when using one or more of the reliefs,
entities have to check carefully if the reliefs meet the requirements in both sets of standards.
6
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Section 2. Common climate-related disclosures
This section illustrates that there is a high degree of alignment of the climate‑related disclosures
in the two sets of standards. Table 2.1 illustrates that almost all the disclosures in ISSB Standards
related to climate are included in ESRS.
Table 2.1 identifies corresponding disclosure requirements between IFRS S2 and ESRS that are
aligned. The table is divided accordingly to the structure of IFRS S2. In this table, footnotes are
used to highlight and explain the basis for alignment in specific areas of interoperability. Asterisks
are used to indicate where a user of this document can find further information about reporting in
compliance with both sets of standards:
• one asterisk (*) is used to indicate that additional relevant information can be found in Section 3.
ESRS to IFRS S2 (climate): information that an entity starting with ESRS needs to know when
also applying ISSB Standards to enable compliance with both sets of standards; and
• two asterisks (**) are used to indicate that additional relevant information can be found in
Section 4. IFRS S2 (climate) to ESRS: information that an entity starting with ISSB Standards
needs to know when also applying ESRS to enable compliance with both sets of standards.
In addition, Section 4.2 provides further information about incremental requirements in ESRS
for paragraphs listed in Table 2.1. Section 4.2 also includes a complete list of climate‑related
disclosures in ESRS that do not have corresponding requirements in ISSB Standards.
Sections 3.1 and 4.1 contain information that an entity starting with ESRS (or ISSB Standards)
needs to know when applying ISSB Standards (or ESRS) to enable compliance with both sets of
standards. Section 3.2 contains climate‑related disclosures in ISSB Standards that do not have
corresponding requirements in ESRS.
In this section disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 are mapped, along with specific relevant
requirements in IFRS S1. Paragraphs of IFRS S2 connected to objectives of the disclosures are not
included in this document. Paragraphs connected to reliefs are set out in the Annex to this document.
Table 2.1 – Corresponding climate-related disclosure requirements between ISSB Standards
and ESRS that are aligned
ISSB Standards ESRS
GOVERNANCE
IFRS S2.6(a) ESRS 2.22(a)
IFRS S2.6(a)(i) ESRS 2.22(b)
IFRS S2.6(a)(ii) ESRS 2.23
IFRS S2.6(a)(iii) ESRS 2.26(a)
IFRS S2.6(a)(iv) ESRS 2.26(b)
IFRS S2.6(a)(v) ESRS 2.22(d)
IFRS S1.21(b) ESRS 2.29(b)–(c)
ESRS E1.13
ESRS 1.124
IFRS S2.6(b) ESRS 2.22(c)
IFRS S2.6(b)(i) ESRS 2.22(c)(i)
IFRS S2.6(b)(ii) ESRS 2.22(c)(iii)
7
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
STRATEGY
Climate-related risks and opportunities
IFRS S2.10(a) ESRS 2.48(a)
IFRS S2.10(b) ESRS E1.18
IFRS S2.10(c)3 ESRS 2.48(e)
IFRS S2.10(d)4 ESRS 1.77(a)–(c)
ESRS 1.78
ESRS 1.80
ESRS E1.AR11(b)
ESRS 2.9(a)–(b)
IFRS S2.12* ESRS 1.10
ESRS 1.11
ESRS 1.30(a)
ESRS 1.130
ESRS 1.131(b)
Business model and value chain
IFRS S2.13(a) ESRS 2.48(b)
IFRS S2.13(b) ESRS 2.48(a)
Strategy and decision-making
IFRS S2.14(a)(i) ESRS 2.47
ESRS 2.48(b)
ESRS E1.AR8(b)
IFRS S2.14(a)(ii)5 ESRS 2.68(b)
ESRS E1.26
ESRS E1.28
ESRS E1.AR31
IFRS S2.14(a)(iii)5 ESRS 2.68(b)
ESRS E1.26
ESRS E1.28
ESRS E1.AR31
3 Paragraph 10(c) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of over which time horizons the risks and opportunities are expected
to occur. Paragraph 48(e) of ESRS 2 requires disclosure of over which time horizons the anticipated financial effects
of the risks and opportunities are expected to occur. Where these time horizons are the same, the disclosure is
aligned. Where these time horizons are different, the entity will need to ensure that additional disclosure is provided.
4 Paragraph 10(d) of IFRS S2 does not provide a specific definition of time horizon but requires disclosure of how an
entity defines short term, medium term and long term and how these definitions are linked to the planning horizons
used for strategic decision making. Paragraphs 77–78 of ESRS 1 include standardised definitions of time horizons,
but allow deviation when the use of the pre‑defined medium‑ or long‑term time horizons results in non‑relevant
information (see paragraph 80 of ESRS 1). Paragraph 9 of ESRS 2 mandates disclosure of an entity’s definition
of medium‑ or long‑term time horizons if they differ from the standardised definitions and the reason for applying
these definitions. Disclosure is aligned if default time horizons are used and the specific disclosure required by
paragraph 10(d) of IFRS S2 is provided, or if alternative time horizons are used, if the disclosures required by both
paragraph 10(d) of IFRS S2 and paragraph 9 of ESRS 2 are provided.
5 Paragraph 68(b) of ESRS 2 requires disclosure of the scope of key actions (that is, coverage in terms of activities,
upstream and/or downstream value chain, geographies and, where applicable, affected stakeholder groups).
The disclosure of upstream and/or downstream value chain applying ESRS corresponds to the disclosure of indirect
actions applying ISSB Standards. Disclosure is aligned if the entity applying ESRS discloses the scope of key
actions including coverage in terms of value chain and classifies its actions as direct (corresponding to the actions
in own operations for ESRS) or indirect (corresponding to the actions in the value chain for ESRS, as suggested in
paragraph AR31 of ESRS E1).
8
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
IFRS S2.14(a)(iv)* ESRS E1.14
ESRS E1.16(a)–(i)
ESRS E1.AR2–AR5
ESRS 2.69(a)–(b)
IFRS S2.14(a)(v) ESRS 2.68(a)–(e)
ESRS 2.69(a)–(c)
ESRS E1.26–27
IFRS S2.14(b) ESRS 2.69(a)–(c)
ESRS E1.26
IFRS S2.14(c) ESRS E1.16(j)
ESRS 2.68(e)
Financial position, financial performance and cash flows
IFRS S2.15(a) ESRS 2.48(d)
IFRS S2.16(a) ESRS 2.48(d) ESRS Annex II, Table 2 (Terms
defined in the ESRS): current financial effects
IFRS S2.15(b) ESRS 2.48(e)
IFRS S2.16(b) ESRS 2.48(d)
IFRS S2.16(c)(i)–(ii) ESRS 2.48(e)
IFRS S2.16(d) ESRS 2.48(e)
IFRS S2.17** ESRS E1.AR70(a)
ESRS E1.AR73(a)
ESRS E1.AR74(a)
Climate resilience
IFRS S2.22(a) ESRS E1.19
IFRS S2.22(a)(i) ESRS E1.19(c)
ESRS E1.AR8
IFRS S2.22(a)(ii) ESRS E1.19(c)
ESRS E1.AR8(a)
IFRS S2.22(a)(iii)(1–3) ESRSE1.19(c)
ESRS E1.AR8(b)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)* ESRS E1.19(a)–(c)
ESRS E1.AR13(d)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(1) ESRS E1.AR13(a)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(2)* ESRS E1.21
ESRS E1.AR11(d)
ESRS E1.AR12(c)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(3)* ESRS E1.21
ESRS E1.AR11(d)
ESRS E1.AR12(c)
9
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(4)* ESRS E1.20(c)(i)
ESRS E1.AR12(c)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(5) ESRS E1.AR13(b)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(6) ESRS E1.AR13(b)
ESRS E1.AR7(b)
IFRS S2.22(b)(i)(7) ESRS E1.19(a)
ESRS E1.AR13(d)
ESRS E1.AR6
IFRS S2.22(b)(ii)* ESRS E1.AR13(c)–(d)
IFRS S2.22(b)(iii) ESRS E1.19(b)
IFRS S1.23 ESRS E1.AR15
IFRS S1.B42(c) ESRS 1.90
ESRS 1.123–129
IFRS S2.23* ESRS 1.131(b)
ESRS 1.130
ESRS 1.11
ESRS 1.30(a)
RISK MANAGEMENT
IFRS S2.25(a) ESRS E1.20
ESRS E1.22
ESRS E1.23
ESRS E1.24
IFRS S2.25(a)(i) ESRS 2.53(g)
IFRS S2.25(a)(ii)* ESRS E1.21
IFRS S2.25(a)(iii) ESRS 2.53(c)(ii)
IFRS S2.25(a)(iv) ESRS 2.53(c)(iii)
IFRS S2.25(a)(v) ESRS 2.53(e)
ESRS 2.53(c)
ESRS 2.65(a)
IFRS S2.25(a)(vi) ESRS 2.53(h)
IFRS S2.25(b)* ESRS 2.53(c)
ESRS E1.20(c)
ESRS E1.65(a)
ESRS E1.19(b)–(c)
ESRS E1.24
IFRS S2.25(c) ESRS 2.53(e)–(f)
IFRS S2.26 ESRS 1.QC17
ESRS 1.115
10
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
METRICS
IFRS S2.29(a)(i)(1–2)** ESRS E1.44(a)–(b)
IFRS S2.29(a)(i)(3)** ESRS E1.44(c)
IFRS S2.B38–B57 ESRS 1.62–67
ESRS 1.QC5
ESRS 1.696
ESRS E1.AR39(b)
ESRS E1.AR46(g)
IFRS S2.29(a)(ii)7 ESRS 1.62
ESRS E1.AR39(a)
IFRS S2.29(a)(iii)(1–3) ESRS E1.AR39(b)8
ESRS 2.77(a)
ESRS 2.80(i)
IFRS S2.29(a)(iv)* ESRS E1.50
IFRS S2.29(a)(v) ESRS E1.49
IFRS S2.B30 ESRS E1.49(a)
IFRS S2.B31 ESRS E1.AR45(d)
IFRS S2.29(a)(vi)(1) ESRS E1.51
IFRS S2.B32 ESRS E1.AR45(c)
ESRS E1.AR46(c)
ESRS E1.AR46(i)
IFRS S2.29(a)(vi)(2)* ESRS 1.131(b)
ESRS E1.AR46(b)
IFRS S2.B19 ESRS E1.AR42
IFRS S2.B56(a) ESRS E1.AR46(g)
IFRS S2.B56(b)9 ESRS E1.AR46
6 As part of the required Scope 3 measurement framework described in paragraphs B38–B57 of IFRS S2,
paragraphs B43 and B47 of IFRS S2 require the entity to prioritise direct measurement of Scope 3 greenhouse
gas emissions. Paragraph 69 of ESRS 1 requires an entity to first make a reasonable effort to collect value chain
information before using estimates for value chain data. Both requirements in the standards result in a priority given
to direct measurement.
7 Paragraph 29(a)(ii) of IFRS S2 requires an entity to measure its greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (2004, GHG Protocol), unless
required by a jurisdictional authority or exchange on which the entity is listed to use a different method for measuring
greenhouse gas emissions. ESRS E1 has been built incorporating in its text content from the GHG Protocol, and
has specific requirements regarding organisational boundary (see Section 4.1(vii)). When additional guidance is
needed, paragraph AR39(a) of ESRS E1 requires entities to consider the principles, requirements and guidance
provided by the GHG Protocol and allows an entity to consider the requirements stipulated by ISO 14064‑1:2018
or Commission Recommendation (EU) 2021/2279. Where ISO 14064‑1 deviates from the GHG Protocol reporting
rules, ESRS require reporting in accordance with ESRS E1, including requirements on organisational boundary
(see Section 4.1(vii)) and the GHG Protocol. An entity that is required to apply ESRS E1 is expected to comply with
the guidance of the GHG Protocol in disclosing the emissions of the consolidated group under the financial control
approach (see paragraph 50(a) of ESRS E1). See also Section 4.2 for the emissions of entities, sites and assets
under operational control.
8 In order to align, disclosure of approach, inputs and assumptions used to measure Scope 3 greenhouse gas
emissions should also include information about the characteristics described in paragraph B40 of IFRS S2.
9 Paragraph B56(b) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of the extent to which the entity’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas
emissions are measured using verified inputs. ESRS sustainability statements are mandatorily subject to assurance.
An entity applying ESRS that wants to comply also with the disclosure requirements in IFRS S2, should specifically
disclose the extent of verification provided by the performance of mandatory assurance.
11
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
IFRS S2.B34 ESRS E1.AR46(f)
IFRS S2.29(b)** ESRS E1.67(a) and (e)
IFRS S2.29(c)** ESRS E1.66(a) and (d)
IFRS S2.29(d)* ESRS E1.64(c)
IFRS S2.29(e)* ESRS E1.16(c) and (e)–(f)
ESRS E1.AR4
IFRS S2.29(f) ESRS E1.62
ESRS E1.63(a) and (c)
IFRS S2.29(g)(i) ESRS 2.29(c)
ESRS E1.13
IFRS S2.29(g)(ii) ESRS E1.13
IFRS S2.31 ESRS E1.AR78
IFRS S2.B65(e) ESRS 1.123–129
IFRS S1.21(b)
IFRS S1.50(c) ESRS 2.77(b)
IFRS S2.32* ESRS 1.131(b)
TARGETS
IFRS S2.33 ESRS 2.79
ESRS 2.80
ESRS E1.30
ESRS E1.34
IFRS S2.33(a) ESRS 2.79(a)
IFRS S2.B6710 ESRS 2.80(b)
IFRS S2.33(b) ESRS 2.80(a)
ESRS E1.33
IFRS S2.33(c) ESRS 2.80(c)
IFRS S2.33(d) ESRS 2.80(e)
ESRS E1.34(d)
IFRS S2.33(e) ESRS 2.80(d)
ESRS E1.34(c)
ESRS E1.AR25
IFRS S2.33(f) ESRS 2.80(e)
IFRS S2.33(g)** ESRS 2.80(b)
ESRS E1.34(a)
ESRS E1.AR23
10 If the metric has been developed by the entity, the disclosure requirements in paragraph 50 of IFRS S1 will apply.
12
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ISSB Standards ESRS
IFRS S2.33(h) ESRS 2.80(f)11
ESRS E1.34(e)
IFRS S2.34(a)12 ESRS E1.34(e)
IFRS S2.34(b) ESRS 2.80(j)
IFRS S2.34(c) ESRS 2.80(j)
IFRS S2.34(d) ESRS 2.80(i)
IFRS S2.35 ESRS 2.80(j)
IFRS S2.36(a) ESRS E1.34(b)*
ESRS E1.AR24
IFRS S2.36(b) ESRS E1.34(b)
ESRS E1.AR24
IFRS S2.36(d) ESRS E1.34(e)
IFRS S2.36(e)(i) ESRS E1.59(b)
ESRS E1.61
IFRS S2.36(e)(ii)** ESRS E1.59(a)–(b)
ESRS E1.61(c)
ESRS E1.AR62(c)
ESRS Annex II, Table 2 (Terms defined in the
ESRS): carbon credit
IFRS S2.36(e)(iii) ESRS E1.AR57(b)
ESRS E1.AR62(b)
IFRS S2.36(e)(iv)* ESRS E1.61(c)
IFRS S2.37* ESRS 1.131(b)
11 Paragraph 80(f) of ESRS 2 requires disclosure of methodologies used to define targets including alignment of
targets with international policy goals where applicable. For climate targets, international policy goals are deemed to
be applicable in ESRS.
12 Paragraph 34(a) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of whether the target and methodology for setting the target has
been validated by a third party. Paragraph BC149 of the Basis for Conclusions on IFRS S2 provides additional
explanation on the requirement, clarifying that ‘validation’ in IFRS S2 is only in reference to whether and how
a climate‑related target has been tested and confirmed by a third party in relation to the latest climate science.
Paragraph 34(e) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of whether the targets have been externally assured. Entities
applying IFRS S2 and ESRS should ensure to provide disclosures in this area that meet the requirements of both
sets of standards. In ESRS E1 targets are defined as supporting the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sustainability
statements prepared applying ESRS are mandatorily assured. For entities applying ESRS the validation of the
methodology and its consistency with the latest climate science would be considered as part of the assurance
process of the target itself.
13
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Section 3. ESRS to IFRS S2 (climate): information that an
entity starting with ESRS needs to know when also applying
ISSBStandards to enable compliance with both sets of standards
The standards have a high degree of alignment. There are a limited number of specific requirements
when an entity starting with ESRS has to consider additional information when also complying
with ISSB Standards.
This section covers areas that need consideration when entities start with ESRS. It highlights
areas in which ISSB Standards have additional information, which an entity applying ESRS will
need to consider in order to also report in compliance with ISSB Standards.
Section 3 should be read in conjunction with ESRS and ISSB Standards. The tables in Sections 3.1
and 3.2 include the following content:
• topic: title briefly explaining the area of disclosure that is addressed;
• explanation: description of the requirements in both sets of standards and explanation of their
interaction; and
• points to consider: highlights areas an entity applying ESRS will need to consider in order to also
report in compliance with ISSB Standards.
Section 3.1 addresses points to consider by an entity starting with ESRS E1. Section 3.2 addresses
additional requirements in IFRS S2 for which there are no corresponding disclosure requirements
in ESRS.
3.1 Information that an entity starting with ESRS needs to know when also applying
ISSB Standards to enable compliance with both sets of standards
Topic (i) Transition plan assumptions
Explanation Paragraph 14(a)(iv) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of any climate‑related transition
plan the entity has, including information about key assumptions used in developing its
transition plan, and dependencies on which the entity’s transition plan relies.
ESRS require an entity to disclose its transition plan for climate change mitigation
(see paragraph 14 of ESRS E1) and list detailed information that should be included (see
paragraph 16(a)–(g) of ESRS E1) as well as refer to greenhouse gas emission reduction
targets, actions and resources allocated to that plan. In addition, paragraph 34(e) of
ESRS E1 and paragraph 21 of ESRS 1 also refer to critical assumptions used. In case
the entity does not have a transition plan in place, it shall indicate whether and, if so,
when it will adopt a transition plan (see paragraph 17 of ESRS E1).
Points to An entity applying ESRS that also wants to comply with IFRS S2 should ensure that
consider any key assumptions and dependencies that are not already captured through the
disclosure required by ESRS E1 are included in the disclosure in order to meet the
requirement in paragraph 14(a)(iv) of IFRS S2.
14
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (ii) Scenario analysis
Explanation Both sets of standards address the use of scenario analysis. However, under
certain circumstances a difference with respect to scenario analysis may occur as
explained below.
Preparation of scenario analysis
In order to provide information about climate resilience, paragraph 22 of IFRS S2
requires an entity to use climate‑related scenario analysis using an approach that is
commensurate with the entity’s circumstances (see paragraphs B1–B18 of IFRS S2)
to assess its climate resilience. Paragraph B18 of IFRS S2 requires that an entity at a
minimum update its climate‑related scenario analysis in line with its strategic planning
cycle. Paragraphs 25(a)(ii) and 25(b) of IFRS S2 require disclosure of whether and how
the entity uses scenario analysis to inform the identification of risks and opportunities.
ESRS E1 does not mandate the use of scenario analysis but requires disclosing how
an entity has used climate‑related scenario analysis to inform the identification and
assessment of physical and transition risks and opportunities over the short‑, medium‑
and long‑term (see paragraph 21 of ESRS E1). ESRS E1 requires an undertaking to
explain how it has used climate‑related scenario analysis (see paragraphs AR13–AR15
of ESRS E1):
1 – to inform the identification and assessment of physical risks and transition risks and
opportunities over the short‑, medium‑ and long‑term (see paragraph 21 of ESRS E1);
2 – to conduct the resilience analysis (see paragraph 19(b) of ESRS E1);
3 – to support the assessment of anticipated financial effects (see paragraphs 65 and
AR11–AR15 of ESRS E1); and
4 – to detect relevant environmental‑, societal‑, technology‑, market‑ and policy‑
related developments and determine its decarbonisation levers for setting targets
(see paragraph AR30(c) of ESRS E1).
Disclosure of inputs to scenario analysis
Paragraph 22(b)(i)(2–4) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of whether the scenario analysis
covers a diverse range of scenarios, whether scenarios are associated with physical
or transition risks, and whether the entity has used a scenario aligned with the latest
international agreement on climate change.
Paragraph AR11(d) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of whether and how the identification
of climate‑related hazards is informed by high emissions climate scenarios. Paragraph
AR12(c) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of whether and how the assessment of
transition risks and opportunities takes into consideration at least a scenario consistent
with the Paris Agreement. It does not prohibit the use and disclosure of other scenarios
for transition risk assessment.
Disclosure of key assumptions in scenario analysis
Paragraph 22(b)(ii)(1–5) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of key assumptions the entity
has made in its scenario analysis and includes a list of key assumptions requiring
disclosure.
Paragraph AR13(c)–(d) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of how the entity has used its
scenario analysis to inform identification of risks and opportunities including as examples:
key forces, drivers, inputs and constraints.
15
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (ii) Scenario analysis
Points to An entity applying ESRS that wants to comply also with IFRS S2 should perform a
consider scenario analysis commensurate with the entity’s circumstances (applying paragraphs
B1–B18 of IFRS S2) to assess its climate resilience.
With regards to disclosure, the entity should ensure that the specific disclosure
requirements in paragraph 22(b)(i)(2–3) and (b)(ii)(1–5) of IFRS S2 are complied with.
In doing so, it should be noted that ESRS require the undertaking to explain whether
and how high‑emission scenarios are used for physical risk and a scenario aligned
with 1.5°C degrees is used for transition risk. Using these scenarios is relevant in
considering whether a diverse range of scenarios for transition and physical risk have
been used. To comply with ISSB Standards, entities should explicitly state, according
to paragraph 22(b)(i)(2–3) of IFRS S2, whether the analysis included a diverse range
of climate‑related scenarios and whether the climate‑related scenarios used for the
analysis are associated with climate‑related transition risks or climate‑related physical
risks. Paragraph AR12(c) of ESRS E1 requires provision of the same information as
paragraph 22(b)(i)(4) of IFRS S2.
The entity needs to ensure that when it applies paragraph AR13(c)–(d) of ESRS E1 it
includes disclosure about key assumptions made in the scenario analysis that meet the
requirements in both sets of standards.
See also Section 4.1(i).
Topic (iii) Industry-based metrics
Explanation Both sets of standards require provision of industry‑based (or sector‑specific) information
when material.
IFRS S2 specifically requires that an entity shall refer to and consider the Industry‑based
Guidance on Implementing IFRS S2 for: identifying climate‑related risks and
opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s prospects
(see paragraph 12 of IFRS S2), preparing disclosures to meet disclosure requirements
in paragraphs 13–22 of IFRS S2 (see paragraph 23 of IFRS S2), determining industry‑
based metrics to disclose (see paragraph 32 of IFRS S2) and identifying and disclosing
metrics used to set and monitor targets (see paragraph 37 of IFRS S2).
As sector‑specific standards are not available in ESRS, entities shall report entity‑specific
information regarding material matters that correspond to their specific situation, while
also considering the transition provision in ESRS 1 (see paragraph 131(b) of ESRS 1).
When an entity provides entity‑specific disclosures applying ESRS, it shall consider
ISSB Standards as a possible source of additional disclosures (see paragraph AR4 of
ESRS 1). In this case, the entity should consider IFRS sector‑specific material when
preparing entity‑specific disclosures, in line with the above mentioned transition provision
in ESRS 1.
Points to So long as ESRS sector‑specific standards relevant to the entity are not in place: an
consider entity using ESRS E1 that also wants to comply with IFRS S2 is required to refer to
and consider the climate‑related disclosure topics and metrics of the Industry‑based
Guidance on Implementing IFRS S2 in the instances described above, in line with the
transition provision in paragraph 131(b) of ESRS 1. Following the issuance of ESRS
sector‑specific standards, different interoperability considerations will apply.
16
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (iv) Greenhouse gas emissions: disaggregation
Explanation Paragraph 29(a)(iv) of IFRS S2 requires that an entity disaggregate Scope 1 and
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions between:
(1) t he consolidated accounting group (for example, for an entity applying
IFRS Accounting Standards, this group would comprise the parent and its
consolidated subsidiaries); and
(2) o ther investees excluded from the consolidated accounting group (for example,
for an entity applying IFRS Accounting Standards, these investees would include
associates, joint ventures and unconsolidated subsidiaries).
Paragraph 50 of ESRS E1 requires the entity to disaggregate Scope 1 and Scope 2
greenhouse gas emissions between:
(1) the consolidated accounting group (the parent and subsidiaries); and
(2) i nvestees such as associates, joint ventures, or unconsolidated entities that are not
fully consolidated in the financial statements of the consolidated accounting group, as
well as contractual arrangements that are joint arrangements not structured through
a legal entity (that is, jointly controlled operations and assets), for which it has
operational control.
Points to If the entity has operations that result in ESRS E1 and IFRS S2 requiring different
consider disaggregations of emissions, then to comply with both sets of standards, two different
disaggregations would need to be provided. See also Section 4.1(ii) and Table 4.2.2.
Topic (v) Climate-related opportunities
Explanation Paragraph 29(d) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of the amount and percentage of
business activities aligned with climate‑related opportunities.
Paragraph 64(c) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of potential to benefit from material
climate‑related opportunities, with paragraph 69 of ESRS E1 requiring the entity to
consider cost savings and potential market size or changes to net revenue from low‑
carbon products and services or adaptation solutions to which the entity has or may have
access as part of this disclosure.
Points to The ‘potential market size or expected changes to net revenue’ in ESRS E1 corresponds
consider to the ‘amount and percentage of business activities’ in IFRS S2. An entity using
ESRS E1 who wants to comply with IFRS S2 should ensure that disclosures
provided applying paragraph 64(c) of ESRS E1 also comply with the requirements in
paragraph 29(d) of IFRS S2.
Topic (vi) Capital deployment
Explanation Paragraph 29(e) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of the amount of capital expenditure,
financing or investment deployed towards climate‑related risks and opportunities.
This disclosure is not limited to mitigation actions.
Paragraph 16(c) and (e)–(f) of ESRS E1 includes disclosure requirements explaining
the funding and investments supporting the implementation of an entity’s transition plan,
and paragraph 29(c) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of significant amounts of Capex or
Opex to implement actions taken or planned to be taken. The disclosure requirements
in ESRS in relation to resources to achieve climate‑related objectives and actions,
including transition plans, correspond to the disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 about
capital deployment.
Points to An entity applying ESRS that also wants to comply with IFRS S2 should ensure
consider that disclosures provided applying ESRS E1 also comply with the requirements in
paragraph 29(e) of IFRS S2.
17
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (vii) Carbon credits: any other factors
Explanation Paragraph 36(e)(iv) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of any other factors necessary to
understand the credibility and integrity of the carbon credits that an entity plans to use,
and paragraph 36(e)(ii) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of which schemes will verify or
certify the credits.
Annex II to ESRS ‘Terms defined in the ESRS’ defines carbon credits as instruments that
are ‘issued and verified according to recognised quality standards.’ Furthermore, ESRS
E1‑7 has additional requirements about the characteristics of carbon credits, including
information about credits in relation to public statements made about carbon neutrality
(see paragraphs 61 and AR61–AR62 of ESRS E1). In particular paragraph 61(c) of
ESRS E1 refers to the credibility and integrity of the carbon credits used, including
reference to recognised quality standards.
Points to An entity applying ESRS E1 that also wants to comply with IFRS S2 should ensure that
consider its disclosures about the characteristics of carbon credits meet the requirements in
IFRS S2.
See also Section 4.1(iii).
3.2 Incremental and additional requirements in IFRS S2
IFRS S2 requires additional climate‑related disclosures on financed emissions for which there are
no corresponding disclosure requirements in ESRS E1.
Topic (i) Financed emissions
Explanation Both sets of standards include requirements related to the disclosure of the amount
of financed emissions (that is, both require disclosure of the amount of Category 15
Scope 3 emissions).
Paragraphs 29(a)(vi)(2) and B58–B63 of IFRS S2 have specific additional disclosure
requirements regarding Scope 3 Category 15 greenhouse gas emissions that apply to
entities with the following types of business activities: asset management, commercial
banking or insurance.
So long as ESRS sector‑specific standards are not in place, if Scope 3 Category 15
greenhouse gas emissions are material, the entity is expected to use the transition
provision in paragraph 131(b) of ESRS 1 to identify relevant sector‑specific disclosures in
relation to those emissions, using available guidance, including IFRS S2.
Paragraph AR46 of ESRS E1 requires financial institutions to consider the GHG
Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry from the Partnership for
Carbon Accounting (PCAF), specifically part A, ‘Financed Emissions.’
Points to An entity applying ESRS E1 that has asset management, commercial banking or
consider insurance activities and that also wants to comply with IFRS S2 should provide
information in accordance with paragraphs 29(a)(vi)(2) and B58–B63 of IFRS S2.
18
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Section 4. IFRS S2 (climate) to ESRS: information that an entity
starting with ISSB Standards needs to know when also applying
ESRS to enable compliance with both sets of standards
This section covers areas that entities starting with ISSB Standards will need to consider to
also report in compliance with ESRS. Section 4 should be read in conjunction with ESRS and
ISSB Standards.
Section 4.1 addresses points to consider by an entity starting with ISSB Standards. Section 4.2
addresses incremental requirements13 in ESRS and additional14 climate‑related disclosures for
which there are no corresponding disclosure requirements in IFRS S2 or IFRS S1.
4.1 Choices to be made for an entity starting with ISSB Standards
The table in Section 4.1 covers areas that need consideration when entities start with ISSB
Standards. The table includes the following content:
• topic: title briefly explaining the area of disclosure that is addressed;
• explanation: description of the requirements in both standards and explanation of their
interaction; and
• points to consider: highlights areas an entity starting with ISSB Standards will need to consider
in order to also report in compliance with ESRS.
Topic (i) Scenario analysis
Explanation Both sets of standards address the use of scenario analysis. However, under
certain circumstances a difference with respect to scenario analysis may occur as
explained below.
Preparation of scenario analysis
Paragraph 22 of IFRS S2 requires an entity to use climate‑related scenario analysis,
using an approach that is commensurate with the entity’s circumstances (see paragraphs
B1–B18 of IFRS S2) to assess its climate resilience. Paragraphs 25(a)(ii) and 25(b) of
IFRS S2 require disclosure of whether and how the entity uses scenario analysis to
inform the identification of risks and opportunities.
ESRS E1 does not mandate the use of scenario analysis but requires disclosing how
an entity has used climate‑related scenario analysis to inform the identification and
assessment of physical and transition risks and opportunities over the short‑, medium‑
and long‑term (see paragraph 21 of ESRS E1). ESRS E1 requires an undertaking to
explain how it has used climate‑related scenario analysis (see paragraphs AR13–AR15
of ESRS E1):
1 – to inform the identification and assessment of physical risks and transition risks and
opportunities over the short‑, medium‑ and long‑term (see paragraph 21 of ESRS E1);
2 – to conduct the resilience analysis (see paragraph 19(b) of ESRS E1);
3 – to support the assessment of anticipated financial effects (see paragraphs 65 and
AR11–AR15 of ESRS E1); and
4 – to detect relevant environmental‑, societal‑, technology‑, market‑ and policy‑
related developments and determine its decarbonisation levers for setting targets
(see paragraph AR30(c) of ESRS E1).
continued...
13 Incremental requirements are requirements in a paragraph in ESRS that also contains aligned requirements
described in Section 3.
14 Additional requirements are paragraphs in ESRS that have no corresponding paragraph or requirement in IFRS S2.
19
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (i) Scenario analysis
Use of scenarios consistent with the Paris Agreement
Paragraph 22(b)(i)(2–4) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of whether the scenario analysis
covers a diverse range of scenarios, whether scenarios are associated with physical
or transition risks, and whether the entity has used a scenario aligned with the latest
international agreement on climate change.
Paragraph AR11(d) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of whether and how the identification
of climate‑related hazards is informed by high emissions climate scenarios. Paragraph
AR12(c) of ESRS E1 requires disclosure of whether and how the assessment of
transition risks and opportunities takes into consideration at least a scenario consistent
with the Paris Agreement. It does not prohibit the use and disclosure of other scenarios
for transition risk assessment.
Points to An entity applying IFRS S2 that also wants to comply with ESRS will need to use
consider the results of its scenario analysis to inform the assessment of risks, opportunities
and describe the entity’s resilience in relation to climate change. The entity must also
disclose whether and how it has considered at least a scenario consistent with the Paris
Agreement (see paragraph AR12(c) of ESRS E1).
See also Section 3.1(ii).
Topic (ii) Greenhouse gas emissions: disaggregation
Explanation Paragraph 29(a)(iv) of IFRS S2 requires that an entity disaggregate Scope 1 and
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions between:
(1) t he consolidated accounting group (for example, for an entity applying IFRS
Accounting Standards, this group would comprise the parent and its consolidated
subsidiaries); and
(2) o ther investees excluded from the consolidated accounting group (for example,
for an entity applying IFRS Accounting Standards, these investees would include
associates, joint ventures and unconsolidated subsidiaries).
Paragraph 50 of ESRS E1 requires the entity to disaggregate Scope 1 and Scope 2
greenhouse gas emissions between:
(1) t he consolidated accounting group (the parent and subsidiaries); and
(2) i nvestees such as associates, joint ventures, or unconsolidated entities that are not
fully consolidated in the financial statements of the consolidated accounting group, as
well as contractual arrangements that are joint arrangements not structured through
a legal entity (that is, jointly controlled operations and assets), for which it has
operational control.
Points to If the entity has operations that result in ESRS E1 and IFRS S2 requiring different
consider disaggregations of emissions, then to comply with both sets of standards, two different
disaggregations would need to be provided. See also Section 3.1(iv), Section 4.1(vii)
and Table 4.2.2.
20
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (iii) Carbon credits
Explanation Definition of carbon credit
Paragraph 36(e) of IFRS S2 requires an entity to disclose the planned use of carbon
credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions to achieve any net greenhouse gas
emissions targets.
Paragraph 36(e)(ii) of IFRS S2 requires an entity to disclose which third‑party scheme
will verify or certify the carbon credits.
ESRS define carbon credits as instruments that are ‘issued and verified according to
recognised quality standards.’ Carbon credits that are not verified according to recognised
quality standards (defined in Annex II to ESRS) do not meet the definition of ‘carbon
credits’ and cannot be reported applying ESRS. Paragraph 59(a) of ESRS E1 requires
disclosure of the total amount of carbon credits that are verified against recognised
quality standards and cancelled in the reporting period.
ESRS E1 also defines carbon credits as only relating to reductions or removals outside
the entity’s value chain (see paragraph 56(b) of ESRS E1) and has separate disclosure
requirements for removal of greenhouse gas and storage projects inside the value chain.
IFRS S2 does not make a distinction between carbon credits arising from within or
outside the value chain.
When public claims of greenhouse gas neutrality involve the use of carbon credits,
paragraph 61(c) of ESRS E1 requires an explanation about the credibility and integrity of
the carbon credits used, including by reference to recognised quality standards.
Use of carbon credits
Paragraph 36(e) of IFRS S2 requires an entity to disclose the planned use of carbon
credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions to achieve any net greenhouse gas
emissions targets.
Paragraph 59(a)–(b) of ESRS E1 requires an entity to disclose the total amount of carbon
credits cancelled in the reporting period and the total amount of carbon credits to be
cancelled in the future and whether they are based on existing contractual agreements or
not. Paragraph 34(b) of ESRS E1 does not allow an entity to use carbon credits to claim
the achievement of greenhouse gas emission targets.
Points to An entity applying IFRS S2 that also wants to comply with ESRS E1 should be aware
consider that non‑verified or carbon credits verified under schemes not recognised as quality
standards, or carbon credits that arise from within the value chain cannot be disclosed
as ‘carbon credits’ applying ESRS, and therefore these are excluded applying ESRS.
In addition, applying ESRS an entity can only report the carbon credits cancelled
in the reporting period. In addition to the planned use of carbon credits, applying
ESRS, an entity also has to report the carbon credits cancelled in the reporting period
(see Table 4.2.2).
An entity applying IFRS S2 that wants to comply with ESRS should ensure that
disclosures about carbon credits – including their credibility and integrity – meet the
requirements in ESRS E1.
Because IFRS S2 may require disclosure about carbon credits used by an entity that
are excluded from ESRS reporting under E1‑7, an entity may need to disaggregate the
information provided about carbon credits in order to meet the requirements of both
ESRS and IFRS S2.
An entity must not use carbon credits to claim achievement of greenhouse gas
emissions targets applying ESRS E1 (see Section 4.1(vi)) greenhouse gas emission
reduction targets). See also Section 3.1(vii).
21
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (iv) Quantitative information: single amount or range
Explanation Paragraph 17 of IFRS S2 permits an entity to provide either a single amount or a
range when disclosing quantitative financial information about current and anticipated
financial effects.
ESRS E1 only permits disclosure of anticipated financial effects as a range in specific
circumstances (see paragraphs AR70(a), AR73(a) and AR74(a) of ESRS E1).
Points to An entity applying IFRS S2 that also wants to comply with ESRS E1 should only provide
consider a range in circumstances when permitted applying ESRS E1. In all other cases, it shall
provide a single amount.
Topic (v) Climate-related physical and transition risks
Explanation Paragraph 29(b)–(c) of IFRS S2 requires disclosure of the amount and percentage
of assets or business activities vulnerable to climate‑related physical and transition
risks. IFRS S2 does not explicitly state this is before or after considering adaptation or
mitigation actions.
Paragraphs 66(a) and 67(a) of ESRS E1 require the disclosure of monetary amount and
percentage of assets at material physical risk (see paragraph 66(a) of ESRS E1) and
material transition risk (see paragraph 67(a) of ESRS E1) before considering climate
mitigation or adaptation actions.
Paragraphs 66(b) and 67(b) of ESRS E1 require the disclosure of monetary amount at
material physical risk (see paragraph 66(b) of ESRS E1) and material transition risk (see
paragraph 67(b) of ESRS E1) addressed by the climate change actions.
Paragraphs 66(d) and 67(e) of ESRS E1 require the disclosure of monetary amount
and percentage of net revenue from business activities subject to material physical and
transition risks.
Points to An entity applying IFRS S2 that also wants to comply with ESRS E1 and discloses
consider the amount and percentage of assets, and the amount and percentage of net revenue
from business activities that are vulnerable to climate‑related risks after the mitigation
or adaptation actions, will need to make sure it discloses: (i) percentage of assets at
material physical risk (see paragraph 66(b) of ESRS E1) and material transition risk
(see paragraph 67(b) of ESRS E1) addressed by the climate change actions and (ii)
the monetary amount and percentage of assets at material physical risk (see paragraph
66(a) of ESRS E1) and material transition risk (see paragraph 67(a) of ESRS E1) before
considering climate mitigation or adaptation actions (that is, ‘gross’).
22
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Topic (vi) Greenhouse gas emission reduction targets
Explanation IFRS S2 refers to greenhouse gas emission targets, but not to greenhouse gas emission
reduction targets. In addition, IFRS S2 does not specifically define greenhouse gas
emission targets as gross only – both gross and net targets may be disclosed as a
greenhouse gas emission reduction target – however if the entity discloses a net target,
it must also separately disclose the associated gross greenhouse gas emission target
(see paragraphs 36(c) and B68–B69 of IFRS S2). There is no requirement to always
disclose an absolute target, however the entity must disclose whether the target is
absolute or intensity based (see paragraph 33(g) of IFRS S2).
Greenhouse gas emission reduction targets are defined in Annex II to ESRS ‘Terms
defined in the ESRS’ as gross greenhouse gas targets – and may be disclosed in
absolute or intensity values, although if an intensity target is disclosed, an absolute
target must also be disclosed (see paragraph AR23 of ESRS E1). Annex II to ESRS
also includes a specific definition of ‘net zero.’ The entity should ensure that any target
described as ‘net zero’ complies with the definition in Annex II to ESRS.
If an entity discloses a net greenhouse gas emission reduction target, this may not be
disclosed as a ‘greenhouse gas emission reduction target’ applying paragraph 34(a) of
ESRS E1.
Points to In order to comply with both sets of standards, the entity should disclose gross
consider reduction targets and disclose in absolute value, and may choose to also disclose
an intensity value if relevant. An entity should also ensure that disclosures of ‘net zero
targets’ are those that meet the ESRS definition given to this term, and that a net
greenhouse gas emission reduction target is not disclosed as a ‘greenhouse gas
emission reduction target’ under paragraph 34(a) of ESRS E1.
Topic (vii) Greenhouse gas emissions: organisational boundary
Explanation Paragraph 29(a)(ii) of IFRS S2 requires an entity to measure its greenhouse gas
emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard (2004, GHG Protocol), unless required by a jurisdictional
authority or exchange on which the entity is listed to use a different method for measuring
greenhouse gas emissions.
Consistent with the GHG Protocol, paragraph B27 of IFRS S2 permits an entity to choose
the equity share or control approach when measuring its greenhouse gas emissions.
If an entity is required by a jurisdiction to use a different method to measure greenhouse
gas emissions, the entity is permitted to use that method in accordance with
paragraph 29(a)(ii) of IFRS S2. IFRS S2 requires an entity to disclose the measurement
approach it uses to measure greenhouse gas emissions including the measurement
approach used when applying the GHG Protocol or the applicable method used
(see paragraphs 29(a)(iii) and B26 of IFRS S2).
ESRS E1 requires the organisational boundary when measuring greenhouse gas
emissions to be consistent with paragraph 62 of ESRS 1, and, in addition, requires
the inclusion in Scope 1 and Scope 2 the emissions of entities, sites and assets under
operational control, that are not included in the consolidated financial statements.
In this context, paragraph 46 of ESRS E1 also requires an entity to include emissions
from the operational control of associates, joint ventures, unconsolidated subsidiaries
(investment entities) and contractual arrangements that are joint arrangements not
structured through an entity (that is, jointly controlled operations and assets), when
reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
Points to An entity starting from IFRS S2 that is required or wants to comply with ESRS E1,
consider when measuring its greenhouse gas emissions for the consolidated group
(see paragraph 50(a) of ESRS E1), could elect to retain the financial control option as
described by the GHG Protocol. An entity that starts by applying IFRS S2 that is required
or wants to comply with ESRS E1 must apply the measurement method required by
ESRS and therefore in addition include the greenhouse gas emissions covered by
paragraph 50(b) of ESRS E1. For the implementation of paragraph 50(b) of ESRS E1,
see Table 4.2.2.
23
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
4.2 Incremental and additional requirements in ESRS
ESRS require climate‑related disclosures for which there are no corresponding disclosure
requirements in IFRS S2 or IFRS S1. These are:
• ‘incremental’ disclosures, that is, both sets of standards include a common overall disclosure
objective, but ESRS include specific incremental datapoints; or
• ‘additional’ disclosures, when ESRS include disclosures that are not covered in ISSB Standards.
The disclosure requirements in ESRS are based on the legal mandate of the Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD).
As explained in the introduction to this document on page 2, the entity does not necessarily
have to report all the disclosures in Tables 4.2.1 and 4.2.2, but only those that are applicable and
material to the entity.
The incremental disclosure requirements mainly relate to impacts as a separate reporting objective
and to the entity’s climate change mitigation performance.
Tables 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 list the climate‑related disclosure requirements in ESRS 2 and ESRS E1
that are not included in ISSB Standards and therefore need to be covered by an entity applying
ISSB Standards that also intends to comply with climate‑related reporting in ESRS.
Introduction to Table 4.2.1 – ESRS 2
Table 4.2.1 lists disclosure requirements in ESRS 2 that do not have a corresponding requirement
in ISSB Standards. Disclosures pertaining to the pillars Governance and Strategy, which in the
architecture of ESRS are primarily located in ESRS 2, are required to be applied in conjunction
with ESRS E1. For reporting on climate change disclosure requirements for governance and
strategy are not repeated in ESRS E1. In particular:
• for governance, ESRS 2 has incremental and additional disclosures that will help entities fulfil the
disclosure objective in ESRS, hence reducing the need of entity‑specific disclosures; and
• for strategy, ESRS 2 has incremental and additional disclosures that support the understanding
of the context for the identification of potential material sustainability matters and on the role and
involvement of stakeholders in defining the strategy and business model, reflecting due diligence
principles and impact materiality.
ESRS E1 has climate‑related topical specifications to IRO 1 and SBM 3 of ESRS2, which are
included in Table 4.2.2.
In the table, items highlighted in grey refer to incremental datapoints in ESRS beyond those
identified as common disclosure requirements.
24
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABLE 4.2.1
ESRS 2 Reference to IFRS S1 Requirements not explicitly covered by IFRS S1 or IFRS S2
or IFRS S2
Governance
ESRS 2.21(a)–(b) NA Composition and diversity of governance bodies (executive/non-executive,
and (d)–(e) gender, etc.)
ESRS 2.21(c) IFRS S1.27(a)(ii) Experience relevant to the sectors, products and geographic locations of the
ESRS 2.23(a)–(b) IFRS S2.6(a)(ii) undertaking. Leverage of collective expertise through access to experts or
training. How skills and expertise relate to material matters.
ESRS 2.22(c)(ii) IFRS S1.27(b)(i)–(ii) Information about reporting lines to the administrative, management and
IFRS S2.6(b)(i)–(ii) supervisory bodies (AMSB).
ESRS 2.26(a) IFRS S1.27(a)(iii) Whether and by whom the AMSB are informed as well as describing the
IFRS S2.6(a)(iii) AMSB being informed about additional items.
ESRS 2.26(c) IFRS S1.26–27 Material IROs addressed during the reporting period.
IFRS S2.5–6
ESRS 2.29(a)–(e) NA Details of incentive schemes.
and AR7
ESRS 2.30–33 and NA Due diligence mapping.
AR8–AR10
ESRS 2.34–36 NA Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting.
Strategy
SBM-1 IFRS S1.28–33 Climate-related impacts on the undertaking’s strategy and business model.
(ESRS 2.38–42 and IFRS S2.8–14 Disclosures that support the understanding of the context for the
AR12–AR15) identification of potential material matters:
• s ignificant products or services, significant markets or customers,
headcount of employees by geographical area, breakdown of total revenue
by significant ESRS sectors;
• s tatement on revenues related to fossil fuel, chemical production;
• controversial weapons;
• relationships with stakeholders; and
• m ain features on up and downstream value chain and main business actors
such as key suppliers, customers, distribution channels.
SBM – 2 NA Role and involvement of affected stakeholders.
(ESRS 2.43–45 and
AR16)
SBM – 3 NA Structured disclosures on material impacts and their description.
(ESRS 2.46–49 and
AR17–AR18)
Risk management
ESRS 2.53(c)(ii)–(iii) IFRS S2.25(a)(iii)–(iv) Disclosures on how the undertaking assesses the likelihood, magnitude,
and nature of effects of the identified risk and opportunities, and how the
undertaking prioritises sustainability-related risks relative to other types of
risks, including its use of risk-assessment tools.
ESRS 2.53(a), (d) NA Description of methodologies, assumptions, decision-making process, related
and (h) internal control procedures as well as timing of modification of the process
and future revision dates of the materiality assessment.
25
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
Introduction to Table 4.2.2 – ESRS E1
Table 4.2.2 lists disclosure requirements in ESRS E1 that do not have an equivalent in IFRS S1 or
IFRS S2. In the table, items highlighted in grey refer to incremental datapoints in ESRS E1 beyond
those identified as common disclosure requirements.
TABLE 4.2.2
ESRS E1 disclosure Reference to Requirements not covered by IFRS S2
requirements IFRS S2
(‘DRs’) and
related application
requirements
(‘ARs’)
DR related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes
ESRS E1.13 IFRS S2.29(g) If performance has been assessed against the greenhouse gas emission
reduction targets, and percentage of the remuneration recognised in the current
period that is linked to climate-related considerations, with an explanation of
what the climate considerations are.
DR related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material IROs and their interaction with strategy and business model
ESRS E1.19(a) and IFRS S2.22(a)(i)–(ii) Which parts of the up and downstream value chain or material physical or
AR6 and (b)(i) transition risks were excluded from the resilience analysis.
IFRS S2.14 (a)(iii)
ESRS E1.19(b) and IFRS S2.22(b)(i) Explain how anticipated financial effects from material physical risk and
AR7 and (iii) transition risks were considered (see paragraph AR7(c) of ESRS E1).
IFRS S2.14(a)(i)
ESRS E1.19(c) and IFRS S2.22(a) and Extent to which the assets and business activities at risk are considered within
AR8 (b)(i) the definition of the undertaking’s strategy, investment decisions, and current
IFRS S2.14(a)(ii) and planned mitigation actions (see paragraph AR8 of ESRS E1).
Access to finance at an affordable cost of capital (see paragraph AR8 of
ESRS E1).
DR related to ESRS IRO-1 – Description of the process to identify and assess climate-related IROs
ESRS E1.20(a) and How the undertaking has screened activities and plans to identify actual and
AR9–AR10 potential future greenhouse gas emissions and drivers for other climate-related
impacts (see paragraph AR9(a) of ESRS E1).
Assessed its actual and potential impacts on climate change (that is, its total
greenhouse gas emissions) (see paragraph AR9(b) of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.20(b) and Identification of climate-related hazards and the use of high-emission
AR11 scenarios.
ESRS E1.20(c) and IFRS S2.25(a) Transition events, using at least a scenario in line with limiting global warming
AR12 to 1.5°C with no or limited overshoot.
ESRS E1.21, AR13 Key drivers and the alignment of scenarios a) with state-of-the-art science,
and AR15 b) why the scenarios cover plausible risks and uncertainties, c) the forces
and drivers taken into account in the scenarios, and d) the key inputs and
constraints of the scenarios (see paragraph AR13 of ESRS E1).
Explain how the climate scenarios used are compatible with those used in the
financial statements (see paragraph AR15 of ESRS E1).
26
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABTaLbEl e4 .12.2
EESSRRSS 2E1 disclosure ReRfeerfeernecnec teo to ReqRuierqeumireenmtse nnotst cnoovt ecroevde breyd I FbRy SIF SR1S/S S22
requirements IFRIFSR SS 2S1/ S2
(‘DRs’) and
Governance
related application
EreSqRuSir e2m.2e1n(at)s, (b), NA Composition and diversity of governance bodies (executive/non-executive,
((d‘A),R (se’)) gender, etc.)
EESSRRSS 2E.12-11( cTr)a nsition planS 1fo.2r 7c(laim)(iai)t e chanEgxep emriietingcaet iroenlevant to the sectors, products and geographic locations of the
EESSRRSS 2E.12.31(6a()a,) ( abn)d S2.6(a)(ii) unde Er xt pak lain ng at. ioL nev oe fr a hg oe w o gf rc eo el nle hc oti uv se e e gx ap se r et mise is t sh ioro nu rg eh d ua cc tc ie os ns t ato rg e ex tp s e ar rt es co or mtr pai an ti in bg le.
How skills and expertise relate to material matters.
AR2 with 1.5°C.
ESRS 2.22(c)(ii) S1.27(b)(i), (ii) Information about reporting lines to the AMSB.
ESRS E1.16(b) Explanation of which decarbonisation levers are used and key actions
S2.6(b)(i), (ii)
planned by reference to greenhouse gas reduction targets and climate change
ESRS 2.26(a) S1.27(a)(iii) Whemthietirg aantido nb ya cwtihoonms. the AMSB are informed as well as describing the AMSB
S2.6(a)(iii) being informed about additional items.
ESRS E1.16(c) Explanation and quantification of investments and funding supporting the
ESRS 2.26(c) S1.26-27 Matetrraianls IiRtiOons padladnr e(mssietidg adtuiornin go ft hgere reenphoorutisneg gpaesr ieomd.issions).
S2.5-6
ESRS E1.16(d) and Qualitative disclosure of potential locked-in emissions in key assets or
EASRR3S 2.29(a), (b), (c), NA Detapilrso odfu icntcse.ntive schemes.
IFRS S2. 14(a)(iv)
(d), (e) + ESRS 2.AR7
ESRS E1.16(e) and EU specific disclosure requirement on alignment of economic activities with the
EASRR4S 2.30-33 + NA Due EdUil igtaexnocneo mmayp opnin ggr.een activities.
AR8-10
ESRS E1.16(f) and Capital expenditure CapEX on coal, oil and gas related economic activities.
EASRR5S 2.34-36 NA Risk Management and internal controls over sustainability reporting.
SEStrRatSe gEy1.16(g) Exclusion from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks (Benchmark Regulation).
SESBRMS-1 E (1E.1S6R(Sh )2.38-42 S1.28-33 ClimAaltieg-nrmelaetnetd o ifm trpaancstsit ioonn tphlaen u wnditehr tsatkriantgeg’sy s atrnadt ebguys ainneds sb umsoindeesls. model.
+ E SE RS SR S E 12 .. 1A 6R (i1 )2-AR15) S2.8-14 DiscWloshuerthese rt hthaet struapnpsoitriot nth pel aunn dise rasptapnrodvinegd obfy tthhee cmonatneaxgt efmore tnhte a indde ngtoifivceartnioannc oef
potebnotidaile ms.aterial matters:
ESRS E1.16(j) NA • s igPnrifiocgarenst sp rtoowduacrdtss oimr spelervmiceenst,a stiiognn iofifc tahnet tmraanrskietitosn o pr lcauns.tomers, headcount of
employees by geographical area, breakdown of total revenue by significant ESRS
ESRS E1.17 NA secWtohresther and when the undertaking will adopt a transition plan in case the
undertaking does not have one.
• s tatement on revenues related to fossil fuel, chemical production
DR E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation
• C ontroversial weapons
ESRS E1.24 IFRS S2.25(a) • R eDlaetisocnrsiphtiiposn woift hth set akkeeyh cooldneterns,t of policies.
ESRS E1.25 NA • M aPino lfiecaietsu raedsd orens uspin agn: dc ldimowatnes cthreaanmge v maluiteig cahtiaoinn; acnlidm mataei nc hbaunsgine easdsa apctatotirosn s; uch
as ekneeyr sguyp epffiliecriesn, ccyu;s rtoenmeewrsa,b dlei setnriebrugtyio dne cphloaynmneelnst..
SDBRM E 1–- 32 A(EcStiRonSs 2 a.4n3d- resoNuArces in relation Rtoo clel iamnadt ein cvhoalvnegmeent of affected stakeholders
45 + ESRS 2.AR16)
ESRS E1.26, 28 and IFRS S2.14(a) Linkage of actions and resources to mitigation and adaptation efforts.
SABRM19 –– 232 (ESRS 2.46- (ii)N–A(iii) and (v) Structured disclosures on material impacts and their description
49 + ESRS 2.AR17- IFRS S2.14(b)
AR18)
ESRS E1.29(a) and NA Key mitigation action by decarbonisation lever (such as energy efficiency, or
RARis1k9 management use of renewable energy, products change).
ESRS 2.53(c)(ii), (iii) S2.25(a)(iii) DiscOloustucroems eo no fh coliwm tahtee uchnadnegrtea kminitgig aastsioens saecsti othnes liinkeclliuhdoiondg, amchaigenvietdu daen,d a nexdp ected
S2.25(a)(iv) natugrere oefn ehfofeucstes goaf st heem idisesniotinfise dre rdisukc taionnds o. pportun ities and how the undertaking
ESRS E1.29(b) and NA priorOituistceos msues otaf icnlaimbialittey -crhelaantegde rmisiktisg aretiloanti vaec ttioo nosth ienrc ltuydpiensg o afc rhisiekvse, din acnludd einxgp eitcst ed
AR19 use gorf ereisnkh-oausssees gsams eenmt itsosoilosn.s reductions.
ESRS 2.53(a), (d), (h) NA DescMriepatisounr aobfl em iemthpoadcotslo fgoire kse, ya smsuitmigapttiioonn sa,c dtieocnissi,o dni-smagagkrinegga pterodc beys s, related
interdneacl acrobnotnroisla ptiroonc eledvuerre s(s aese wpaerlla agsr atpimh iAngR 1o9f mofo EdSifiRcSa tEio1n) .of the process and
future revision dates of the materiality assessment.
ESRS E1.29(c) and IFRS S2.14(b) Financial resources for key actions to the line items in the financial statements,
AR20–AR22 IFRS S2.21(b) key performance indicators and CapEx plan.
Extent to which ability to implement actions depends on availability and
allocations of resources (see paragraph AR21 of ESRS E1).
DR E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaption
ESRS E1.34(b) and IFRS S2.36(a)–(c) Requirement on use of Scope 2 location-based or market-based method
AR24 (see paragraph AR24 of ESRS E1).
Consistency between greenhouse gas reduction targets and the greenhouse
gas inventory boundaries (see paragraph AR24 of ESRS E1).
Extension of the requirements to subsidiaries (see paragraph AR24 of
ESRS E1).
27
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABLE 4.2.2
ESRS E1 disclosure Reference to Requirements not covered by IFRS S2
requirements IFRS S2
(‘DRs’) and
related application
requirements
(‘ARs’)
ESRS E1.34(c) and IFRS S2.33(e) Baseline value for the greenhouse gas emission reduction target and how it
AR25 represents its activities and external influences (see paragraph AR25(a) of
ESRS E1).
Update of base year and baseline value every five years after 2023 (see
paragraph AR25(c) of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.34(d) IFRS S2.33(d) Greenhouse gas emissions reduction target value for 2030.
ESRS E1.34(e) and IFRS S2.33(h) Underlying policy and climate scenarios and whether they have been externally
AR26–AR29 IFRS S2.34(a) assured.
ESRS E1.34(f) and NA Decarbonisation levers and their overall quantitative contributions to
AR30–AR31 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets broken down by Scope 1, Scope 2
and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
Role of planned new technologies in greenhouse gas emission reduction
achievement, and the climate scenarios considered (included at least one
compatible with 1.5°C limit to global warming) to detect the developments that
would determine the decarbonisation levers.
DR E1–5 Energy consumption and mix
ESRS E1.35 and Energy consumption and mix (perimeter, energy purposes, unit of
AR32 measurement, final energy consumption, no offset, purchased energy, steam,
heat, cooling, H2, etc.).
ESRS E1.37 and Energy consumption in MWh related to own operations by energy consumption
AR33–AR35 from fossil sources (for high impact sectors), nuclear sources, and renewable
sources disaggregated by consumption from: renewable sources, purchased
energy from renewable sources, self-generated renewable energy.
ESRS E1.38 and NA Disaggregation of energy consumption from fossil sources by coal, oil,
AR33 natural gas, other fossil sources for entities with operations in high climate
impact sectors.
ESRS E1.39 Own energy production (renewable and non-renewable).
ESRS E1.40–42 Energy intensity per net turnover for activities in high climate impact sectors,
high climate impact sectors used to determine the energy intensity.
ESRS E1.43 and Reconciliation of the net revenue denominator of the energy intensity ratio to
AR36 the financial statements.
DR E1–6 Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions
ESRS E1.44, AR39 Reasons of choice of the emission factors (see paragraph AR39 of ESRS E1).
and AR41–AR42 Reference or link to calculation tools used (see paragraph AR39 of ESRS E1).
Disaggregation of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3, or total greenhouse gas
IFRS S2.29(a)(i)
emissions (for example, by country, operating segment, economic activity, or
(1–3)
source) (see paragraph AR41 of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.47 Changes in the definition of reporting undertaking and effect on the year-to-
year comparability.
ESRS E1.48 and IFRS S2.29(a)(i)(1) Scope 1 greenhouse gas emission from regulated trading schemes (see
AR43–AR44 paragraph 48(b) of ESRS E1).
Provision to follow EU ETS methodology in reporting about activities that fall
under its scope (see paragraph AR43 of ESRS E1).
Provisions and formula to calculate the share of Scope 1 greenhouse gas
emissions under ETS (see paragraph AR44 of ESRS E1).
Reporting CO biogenic emissions separately from Scope 1 greenhouse gas
2
emissions (see paragraph AR43 of ESRS E1).
28
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABLE 4.2.2
ESRS E1 disclosure Reference to Requirements not covered by IFRS S2
requirements IFRS S2
(‘DRs’) and
related application
requirements
(‘ARs’)
ESRS E1.49 and IFRS S2.29(a)(i)(2) Requirement to report market-based gross Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions
AR45 (paragraph B31 of IFRS S2 makes it optional, although disclosure of
contractual instruments s required).
Reporting indirect biogenic CO emissions from purchased or acquired
2
electricity, steam, heat and cooling separately from Scope 2 greenhouse gas
emissions (see paragraph AR45 of ESRS E1).
Report if CH and NO emissions are not reported in the Scope 2 greenhouse
4 2
gas emissions (see paragraph AR45 of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.50(b) IFRS S2.29(a)(i) Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse emissions of sites, entities and assets
(1–2) under operational control whose assets are not included in the consolidated
financial statements.
ESRS E1.51 and IFRS S2.29(a)(i)(3) List of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions categories included in and excluded
AR46 from the inventory with a justification for excluded Scope 3 categories.
Reporting other indirect biogenic CO emissions that occur in the upstream and
2
downstream value chain separately from Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
(see paragraph AR46 of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.52 and NA Total gross emissions, both location-based and market-based.
AR47–AR52 Presentation requirement on table structure breaking down total greenhouse
gas emission by scope (see paragraph AR48 of ESRS E1).
Requirement to breakdown Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from cloud
computing and data centre services, if material (see paragraph of AR51 of
ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.53–55 and NA Intensity of total greenhouse gas emissions in relation to net revenue.
AR53–AR55
Disclosure requirement ESRS E1 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits
Greenhouse gas removals
ESRS E1.58(a) and IFRS S2.36(e)(iii) Greenhouse gas removals and storage in tonnes of COeq in own operations or
2
AR56–AR60 contributed to in its upstream and downstream value chain.
Greenhouse gas removals and storage breakdown into: a) own operations,
upstream and downstream in value chain; b) type of removal; c) type of
greenhouse gas; d) type of storage (see paragraph AR57 of ESRS E1).
If the removal activity qualifies as nature-based solution (see paragraph AR57
of ESRS E1).
How the risk of non-permanence is managed, including determining and
monitoring leakage and reversal events (see paragraph AR57 of ESRS E1).
Calculation and presentation guidance (see paragraphs AR58–AR60 of
ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.60 and NA Concept of net-zero target (Annex II to ESRS ‘Terms defined in the ESRS’)
Glossary of Terms (linked to removals in own operations or value chain and after approximately
used in ESRS 90–95%. reduction has been achieved, with no possibility of using carbon
credits as in paragraph 36(e)(i) of IFRS S2).
Explanation of scope, methodologies and frameworks applied if disclosing a
net-zero target.
How residual greenhouse gas emissions are intended to be neutralised by
greenhouse gas removals.
29
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABLE 4.2.2
ESRS E1 disclosure Reference to Requirements not covered by IFRS S2
requirements IFRS S2
(‘DRs’) and
related application
requirements
(‘ARs’)
Carbon credits
ESRS E1.59 and Amount of carbon credits purchased from outside value chain and cancelled in
AR61–AR63 the reporting period.
Carbon credits include only those verified against recognised quality standards.
Whether planned carbon credits purchases are based on existing contractual
agreements or not.
Whether use of carbon credits is separate from greenhouse gas emissions (not
net accounting) and greenhouse gas emission reduction (not net targets) (see
paragraph AR61 of ESRS E1).
Share of greenhouse gas reduction and removal projects (outside value chain,
linked to carbon credits) (see paragraph AR62 of ESRS E1).
IFRS S2.36(e)(i)–(iv)
Share of projects in the EU (see paragraph AR62 of ESRS E1).
Share qualifying as a corresponding adjustment (Art.6 Paris Agreement) (see
paragraph AR62 of ESRS S1).
Calculation and presentation guidance (see paragraph AR63 of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.61 Whether and how greenhouse gas neutrality claims are accompanied by a
greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
Whether and how neutrality claims and use of carbon credits reduce
achievement of greenhouse gas target.
The credibility and integrity of carbon credits, by reference to recognised
quality standards.
Disclosure requirement ESRS E1-8 – Internal Carbon Pricing
ESRS E1.63(a) IFRS S2.29(f) Disclosure of type of carbon pricing scheme.
ESRS E1.63(b) NA Detailed disclosure of the scope of application.
ESRS E1.63(c) and IFRS S2.29(f) Disclosure of the critical assumption in determination of internal carbon prices.
AR65 IFRS S1.21(b)(ii) Consistency between internal carbon prices with prices used in the financial
statements (see paragraph AR65 of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.63(d) Gross Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emission volumes
covered by internal carbon pricing schemes and their relative share of the
undertaking’s total greenhouse gas emissions.
Disclosure requirement ESRS E1-9 – Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential
climate-related opportunities
ESRS E1.66(a) and IFRS S2.29(c) Disaggregation between acute and chronic physical risk.
AR69–AR70
ESRS E1.66(b) and NA Percentage of assets covered by climate change adaptation actions.
AR67
ESRS E1.66(c), NA Location of significant assets at material physical risk.
AR67 and AR69
ESRS E1.66(d), IFRS S2.29(b)–(c) Impact on ‘net revenue’ (in IFRS S2 this is ‘business activities’,
AR67 and AR71 undefined term).
Split between short, medium and long term.
ESRS E1.67(a) and IFRS S2.29(b) Estimated amounts and percentage of stranded assets (assets with significant
AR72–AR73 locked-in emissions) (see paragraph AR73(a) of ESRS E1).
Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets, including rights-of-
use assets, by energy efficiency classes (see paragraph AR73(b) of ESRS E1).
ESRS E1.67(b) and IFRS S2.29(b)–(c) Proportion of assets at material transition risks covered by climate change
AR73 adaptation actions.
ESRS E1.67(c) NA Breakdown of the carrying value of real estate assets by energy
efficiency classes.
30
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
TABLE 4.2.2
ESRS E1 disclosure Reference to Requirements not covered by IFRS S2
requirements IFRS S2
(‘DRs’) and
related application
requirements
(‘ARs’)
ESRS E1.67(d) and NA Potential liabilities due to material transition risks.
AR74
ESRS E1.67(e) NA Relevant net revenue from customers in coal, oil and gas.
ESRS E1.68 IFRS S2.29(b)–(c) Reconciliation to financial statements of asset and net revenue at physical risk,
IFRS S1.21(b)(ii) and also liabilities at transition risk.
ESRS E1.69(a) and NA Expected cost savings from climate change mitigation and adaptation actions.
AR80 Nature of cost savings (see paragraph AR80 of ESRS E1).
31
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
ANNEX – Reliefs in ISSB Standards and in ESRS
Reliefs in ISSB Standards for climate-related information
Undue cost and effort
There are several instances in which ISSB Standards include a relief based on ‘reasonable and
supportable information that is available to the entity without undue cost or effort’:
1. identification of climate‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to
affect the entity’s prospects (paragraph 11 of IFRS S2 and paragraph B6(a) of IFRS S1);
2. determination of the scope of the value chain (paragraph B36 of IFRS S2 and paragraph B6(b)
of IFRS S1);
3. preparation of information about the anticipated financial effects of a climate‑related risk or
opportunity (paragraph 18 of IFRS S2);
4. preparation of information about climate‑related transition risks, physical risks and opportunities
(paragraph 30 of IFRS S2); and
5. selection of measurement approach, inputs and assumptions in measuring Scope 3 greenhouse
gas emissions (paragraph B39 of IFRS S2).
Current and anticipated financial effects
Paragraphs 18–21 of IFRS S2 contain reliefs available to an entity for disclosing quantitative
information about current and anticipated financial effects of climate‑related risks or opportunities.
When applicable, these reliefs allow the entity to provide only qualitative information about current
and anticipated financial effects.
Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
Paragraph B57 of IFRS S2 contains a disclosure requirement which applies in the case that
an entity determines that it is impracticable to estimate its Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
(required in paragraph 29(a)(vi)(1) of IFRS S2). ESRS do not contain a relief from providing
Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions when impracticable, and therefore do not contain an equivalent
disclosure requirement.
Reliefs in ESRS
1. Reasonable effort in reporting value chain information (including Scope 3 greenhouse gas
emissions)
Paragraph 69 of ESRS 1 identifies circumstances where the undertaking cannot collect the
information about its upstream and downstream value chain as required by paragraph 63 of
ESRS 1 after making reasonable efforts to do so. In these circumstances, the undertaking shall
estimate the information to be reported about its upstream and downstream value chain, by using
all reasonable and supportable information, such as sector‑average data and other proxies.
This relief is also applicable to the preparation of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
2. Undue cost and effort in reporting value chain information
Paragraph AR17 of ESRS 1 further clarifies that when the undertaking develops estimates (see
point 1 Reasonable effort in reporting value chain information above), the undertaking shall
estimate the information to be reported using all reasonable and supportable information that is
available to the undertaking at the reporting date without undue cost or effort. This includes, but is
not limited to, internal and external information, such as data from indirect sources, sector‑average
data, sample analyses, market and peer groups data, other proxies or spend‑based data.
32
ESRS–ISSB StandaRdS IntERopERaBIlIty GuIdancE
3. Quantification of financial effects for opportunities
Paragraph 70 of ESRS 1 contains a relief available to the entity for disclosing quantitative
information about financial effects of climate‑related opportunities. A quantification of the
financial effects that arise from opportunities is not required if such a disclosure does not meet
the qualitative characteristics of useful information included under Appendix B of ESRS 1.
33