EUROPEAN
COMMISSION
Brussels, 31.7.2023
C(2023) 5303 final
ANNEX 1
ANNEX
to the
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) .../...
supplementing Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council as
regards sustainability reporting standards
EN EN
ANNEX I
EUROPEAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING STANDARDS (ESRS)
ESRS 1 General requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
ESRS E1 Climate change
ESRS E2 Pollution
ESRS E3 Water and marine resources
ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems
ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy
ESRS S1 Own workforce
ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain
ESRS S3 Affected communities
ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users
ESRS G1 Business conduct
ESRS 1
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Table of contents
Objective
1. Categories of ESRS Standards, reporting areas and drafting conventions
1.1 Categories of ESRS Standards
1.2 Reporting areas and minimum content disclosure requirements on policies, actions, targets
and metrics 1.3 Drafting conventions
2. Qualitative characteristics of information
3. Double materiality as the basis for sustainability disclosures
3.1 Stakeholders and their relevance to the materiality assessment process
3.2 Material matters and materiality of information
3.3 Double materiality
3.4 Impact materiality
3.5 Financial materiality
3.6 Material impacts or risks arising from actions to address sustainability matters 3.7 Level of
disaggregation
4. Due diligence
5. Value chain
5.1 Reporting undertaking and value chain
5.2 Estimation using sector averages and proxies
6. Time horizons
6.1 Reporting period
6.2 Linking past, present and future
6.3 Reporting progress against the base year
6.4 Definition of short-, medium- and long-term for reporting purposes
7 Preparation and presentation of sustainability information
7.1 Presenting comparative information
7.2 Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty
1
7.3 Updating disclosures about events after the end of the reporting period
7.4 Changes in preparation or presentation of sustainability information
7.5 Reporting errors in prior periods
7.6 Consolidated reporting and subsidiary exemption
7.7 Classified and sensitive information, and information on intellectual property, know-how or
results of innovation 7.8 Reporting on opportunities
8. Structure of sustainability statement
8.1 General presentation requirement
8.2 Content and structure of the sustainability statement
9. Linkages with other parts of corporate reporting and connected information
9.1 Incorporation by reference
9.2 Connected information and connectivity with financial statements
10. Transitional provisions
10.1 Transitional provision related to entity-specific disclosures
10.2 Transitional provision related to chapter 5 Value chain
10.3 Transitional provision related to section 7.1 Presenting comparative information
10.4 Transitional provision: List of Disclosure Requirements that are phased-in
Appendix A: Application Requirements
Entity-specific disclosures
Double materiality
Estimation using sector averages and proxies
Content and structure of the sustainability statement
Appendix B: Qualitative characteristics of information
Appendix C: List of phased-in Disclosure Requirements
Appendix D: Structure of ESRS sustainability statement
Appendix E: Flowchart for determining disclosures to be included
Appendix F: Example of structure of ESRS sustainability statement
Appendix G: Example of incorporation by reference
Objective
1. The objective of European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) is to specify the
sustainability information that an undertaking shall disclose in accordance with Directive
2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council1 as amended by Directive (EU)
2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council.2 Reporting in accordance with ESRS
does not exempt undertakings from other obligations laid down in Union law.
2. Specifically ESRS specify the information that an undertaking shall disclose about its material
impacts risks and opportunities in relation to environmental social and governance
sustainability matters. ESRS do not require undertakings to disclose any information on
environmental social and governance topics covered by ESRS when the undertaking has
assessed the topic in question as non-material (See Appendix E of this Standard “Flowchart for
determining disclosures to be included”).The information disclosed in accordance with ESRS
enables users of the sustainability statement to understand the undertaking’s material impacts
on people and environment and the material effects of sustainability matters on the undertaking’s
development performance and position.
1 Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements
consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182 29.6.2013 p.
19).
2 Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending Regulation (EU) No
537/2014 Directive 2004/109/EC Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU as regards corporate sustainability reporting (OJ
L 322 16.12.2022 p. 15).
2
3. The objective of this Standard (ESRS 1) is to provide an understanding of the architecture of
ESRS the drafting conventions and fundamental concepts used and the general requirements
for preparing and presenting sustainability information in accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU
as amended by Directive (EU) 2022/2464.
1. Categories of ESRS Standards, reporting areas and drafting conventions
1.1 Categories of ESRS standards
4. There are three categories of ESRS:
(a) cross-cutting standards;
(b) topical standards (Environmental Social and Governance standards); and (c) sector-
specific standards.
Cross-cutting standards and topical standards are sector-agnostic meaning that they apply to all
undertakings regardless of which sector or sectors the undertaking operates in.
5. The cross-cutting standards ESRS 1 General requirements and ESRS 2 General disclosures
apply to the sustainability matters covered by topical standards and sector-specific standards.
6. This standard (ESRS 1) describes the architecture of ESRS standards explains drafting
conventions and fundamental concepts and sets out general requirements for preparing and
presenting sustainability-related information.
7. ESRS 2 establishes Disclosure Requirements on the information that the undertaking shall
provide at a general level across all material sustainability matters on the reporting areas
governance, strategy, impact, risk and opportunity management and metrics and targets.
8. Topical ESRS cover a sustainability topic and are structured into topics and sub-topics and where
necessary sub-sub-topics. The table in Application Requirement 16 (AR 16) to this standard
provides an overview of the sustainability topics sub-topics and sub-sub-topics (collectively
‘sustainability matters’) covered by topical ESRS.
9. Topical ESRS can include specific requirements that complement the general level Disclosure
Requirements of ESRS 2. ESRS 2 Appendix C Disclosure/Application Requirements in topical
ESRS that are applicable jointly with ESRS 2 General Disclosures provides a list of the additional
requirements in topical ESRS that the undertaking shall apply in conjunction with the general
level disclosure requirements of ESRS 2.
10. Sector-specific standards are applicable to all undertakings within a sector. They address
impacts, risks and opportunities that are likely to be material for all undertakings in a specific
sector and that are not covered or not sufficiently covered by topical standards. Sector-specific
standards are multi-topical and cover the topics that are most relevant to the sector in question.
Sector-specific standards achieve a high degree of comparability.
11. In addition to the disclosure requirements laid down in the three categories of ESRS when an
undertaking concludes that an impact risk or opportunity is not covered or not covered with
sufficient granularity by an ESRS but is material due to its specific facts and circumstances it
shall provide additional entity-specific disclosures to enable users to understand the
undertaking’s sustainability-related impacts, risks or opportunities. Application requirements
AR 1 to AR 5 provide further guidance regarding entity-specific disclosures.
1.2 Reporting areas and minimum content disclosure requirements on policies,
actions, targets and metrics
12. The Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 in topical ESRS and in sector-specific ESRS are structured
into the following reporting areas:
(a) Governance (GOV): the governance processes controls and procedures used to monitor
manage and oversee impacts, risks and opportunities (see ESRS 2 chapter 2 Governance);
3
(b) Strategy (SBM): how the undertaking’s strategy and business model interact with its material
impacts risks and opportunities including how the undertaking addresses those impacts risks
and opportunities (see ESRS 2 chapter 3 Strategy);
(c) Impact, risk and opportunity management (IRO): the process(es) by which the undertaking:
i. identifies impacts risks and opportunities and assesses their materiality (see IRO-1 in
section 4.1 of ESRS 2) ii. manages material sustainability matters through policies
and actions (see section 4.2 of ESRS 2).
(d) Metrics and targets (MT): the undertaking’s performance including targets it has set and
progress towards meeting them (see ESRS 2 chapter 5 Metrics and targets).
13. ESRS 2 includes:
(a) in section 4.2 Minimum Disclosure Requirements regarding policies (MDR-P) and actions
(MDR-A);
(b) in section 5 Minimum Disclosure Requirements regarding metrics (MDR-M) and targets (MDR-
T).
The undertaking shall apply the minimum disclosure requirements regarding policies
actions metrics and targets together with the corresponding Disclosure Requirements in topical
and sector-specific ESRS.
1.3 Drafting conventions
14. In all ESRS:
(a) the term “impacts” refers to positive and negative sustainability-related impacts that are
connected with the undertaking’s business as identified through an impact materiality
assessment (see section 3.4 Impact materiality). It refers both to actual impacts and to
potential future impacts.
(b) The term “risks and opportunities” refers to the undertaking’s sustainability-related
financial risks and opportunities including those deriving from dependencies on natural
human and social resources as identified through a financial materiality assessment
(see section 3.5).
Collectively these are referred to as “impacts risks and opportunities” (IROs). They reflect the double
materiality perspective of ESRS described in section 3.
15. Throughout ESRS the terms that are defined in the glossary of definitions (Annex II) are put in bold
italic except when a defined term is used more than once in the same paragraph.
16. ESRS structure the information to be disclosed under Disclosure Requirements. Each Disclosure
Requirement consists of one or more distinct datapoints. The term “datapoint” can also refer to a
narrative sub-element of a Disclosure Requirement.
17. In addition to Disclosure Requirements most ESRS also contain Application Requirements.
Application Requirements support the application of Disclosure Requirements and have the same
authority as other parts of an ESRS.
18. ESRS use the following terms to distinguish between different degrees of obligation on the
undertaking to disclose information:
(a) “shall disclose” – indicates that the provision is prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement or
datapoint;
(b) “may disclose” – indicates voluntary disclosure to encourage good practice.
In addition ESRS use the term “shall consider” when referring to issues resources or
methodologies that the undertaking is expected to take into account or to use in the preparation
of a given disclosure if applicable.
2. Qualitative characteristics of information
19. When preparing its sustainability statement the undertaking shall apply:
4
(a) the fundamental qualitative characteristics of information i.e. relevance and faithful
representation; and
(b) the enhancing qualitative characteristics of information i.e. comparability verifiability and
understandability.
20. These qualitative characteristics of information are defined and described in Appendix B of this Standard.
3. Double materiality as the basis for sustainability disclosures
21. The undertaking shall report on sustainability matters based on the double materiality principle as
defined and explained in this chapter.
3.1 Stakeholders and their relevance to the materiality assessment process
22. Stakeholders are those who can affect or be affected by the undertaking. There are two main groups
of stakeholders:
(a) affected stakeholders: individuals or groups whose interests are affected or could be
affected – positively or negatively – by the undertaking’s activities and its direct and
indirect business relationships across its value chain; and
(b) users of sustainability statements: primary users of general-purpose financial reporting
(existing and potential investors lenders and other creditors including asset managers
credit institutions insurance undertakings) and other users of sustainability statements
including the undertaking’s business partners trade unions and social partners civil
society and non-governmental organisations governments analysts and academics.
23. Some but not all stakeholders may belong to both groups referred to in paragraph 22.
24. Engagement with affected stakeholders is central to the undertaking’s on-going due diligence process
(see chapter 4 Due diligence) and sustainability materiality assessment. This includes its processes to
identify and assess actual and potential negative impacts which then inform the assessment process
to identify the material impacts for the purposes of sustainability reporting (see section 3.4 of this
Standard).
3.2 Material matters and materiality of information
25. Performing a materiality assessment (see sections 3.4 Impact materiality and 3.5 Financial
materiality) is necessary for the undertaking to identify the material impacts, risks and
opportunities to be reported.
26. Materiality assessment is the starting point for sustainability reporting under ESRS. IRO-1 in
section 4.1 of ESRS 2 includes general disclosure requirements about the undertaking’s
process to identify impacts, risks and opportunities and assess their materiality. SBM-3 of
ESRS 2 provides general disclosure requirements on the material impacts risks and
opportunities resulting from the undertaking’s materiality assessment.
27. The Application Requirements in Appendix A of this Standard include a list of sustainability
matters covered in topical ESRS categorised by topics sub-topics and sub-sub-topics to
support the materiality assessment. Appendix E Flowchart for determining disclosures to be
included of this Standard provides an illustration of the materiality assessment described in this
section.
28. A sustainability matter is “material” when it meets the criteria defined for impact materiality
(see section 3.4 of this Standard) or financial materiality (see section 3.5 of this Standard) or
both.
29. Irrespective of the outcome of its materiality assessment the undertaking shall always disclose
the information required by: ESRS 2 General Disclosures (i.e. all the Disclosure Requirements
and data points specified in ESRS 2) and the Disclosure Requirements (including their
datapoints) in topical ESRS related to the Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 Description of the
process to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities as listed in ESRS 2
5
Appendix C Disclosure/Application Requirements in topical ESRS that are applicable jointly with
ESRS 2 General Disclosures.
30. When the undertaking concludes that a sustainability matter is material as a result of its
materiality assessment on which ESRS 2 IRO-1 IRO-2 and SBM-3 set disclosure
requirements it shall:
(a) disclose information according to the Disclosure Requirements (including Application
Requirements) related to that specific sustainability matter in the corresponding topical
and sector-specific ESRS; and
(b) disclose additional entity-specific disclosures (see paragraph 11 and AR 1 to AR 5 of this
Standard) when the material sustainability matter is not covered by an ESRS or is covered
with insufficient granularity.
31. The applicable information prescribed within a Disclosure Requirement including its datapoints
or an entity-specific disclosure shall be disclosed when the undertaking assesses as part of its
assessment of material information that the information is relevant from one or more of the
following perspectives:
(a) the significance of the information in relation to the matter it purports to depict or explain;
or
(b) the capacity of such information to meet the users’ decision-making needs including the
needs of primary users of general-purpose financial reporting described in paragraph 48
and/or the needs of users whose principal interest is in information about the
undertaking’s impacts.
32. If the undertaking concludes that climate change is not material and therefore omits all
disclosure requirements in ESRS E1 Climate change it shall disclose a detailed explanation of
the conclusions of its materiality assessment with regard to climate change (see ESRS 2 IRO-
2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement)
including a forward-looking analysis of the conditions that could lead the undertaking to conclude
that climate change is material in the future. If the undertaking concludes that a topic other than
climate change is not material and therefore it omits all the Disclosure Requirements in the
corresponding topical ESRS it may briefly explain the conclusions of its materiality assessment
for that topic.
33. When disclosing information on policies, actions and targets in relation to a sustainability
matter that has been assessed to be material the undertaking shall include the information
prescribed by all the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical and sector-specific
ESRS related to that matter and in the corresponding Minimum Disclosure Requirement on
policies actions and targets required under ESRS 2. If the undertaking cannot disclose the
information prescribed by either the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical or
sector-specific ESRS or the Minimum Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 on policies actions
and targets because it has not adopted the respective policies implemented the respective
actions or set the respective targets it shall disclose this to be the case and it may report a
timeframe in which it aims to have these in place.
34. When disclosing information on metrics for a material sustainability matter according to the
Metrics and Targets section of the relevant topical ESRS the undertaking:
(a) shall include the information prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement if it assesses such
information to be material; and
(b) may omit the information prescribed by a datapoint of a Disclosure Requirement if it
assesses such information to be not material and concludes that such information is not
needed to meet the objective of the Disclosure Requirement.
35. If the undertaking omits the information prescribed by a datapoint that derives from other EU
legislation listed in Appendix B of ESRS 2 it shall explicitly state that the information in question
is “not material”.
36. The undertaking shall establish how it applies criteria including appropriate thresholds to
determine:
6
(a) the information it discloses on metrics for a material sustainability matter according to
the Metrics and Targets section of the relevant topical ESRS in accordance with
paragraph 34; and (b) the information to be disclosed as entity-specific disclosures.
3.3 Double materiality
37. Double materiality has two dimensions namely: impact materiality and financial materiality.
Unless specified otherwise the terms “material” and “materiality” are used throughout ESRS to
refer to double materiality.
38. Impact materiality and financial materiality assessments are inter-related and the
interdependencies between these two dimensions shall be considered. In general the starting
point is the assessment of impacts although there may also be material risks and
opportunities that are not related to the undertaking’s impacts. A sustainability impact may be
financially material from inception or become financially material when it could reasonably be
expected to affect the undertaking’s financial position financial performance cash flows its
access to finance or cost of capital over the short- medium- or long-term. Impacts are captured
by the impact materiality perspective irrespective of whether or not they are financially material.
39. In identifying and assessing the impacts, risks and opportunities in the undertaking’s value
chain to determine their materiality the undertaking shall focus on areas where impacts risks
and opportunities are deemed likely to arise based on the nature of the activities business
relationships geographies or other factors concerned.
40. The undertaking shall consider how it is affected by its dependencies on the availability of
natural human and social resources at appropriate prices and quality irrespective of its potential
impacts on those resources.
41. An undertaking’s principal impacts, risks and opportunities are understood to be the same as
the material impacts risks and opportunities identified under the double materiality principle
and therefore reported on in its sustainability statement.
42. The undertaking shall apply the criteria set under sections 3.4 and 3.5 in this Standard using
appropriate quantitative and/or qualitative thresholds. Appropriate thresholds are necessary to
determine which impacts, risks and opportunities are identified and addressed by the
undertaking as material and to determine which sustainability matters are material for
reporting purposes. Some existing standards and frameworks use the term "most significant
impacts” when referring to the threshold used to identify the impacts that are described in ESRS
as "material impacts."
3.4 Impact materiality
43. A sustainability matter is material from an impact perspective when it pertains to the undertaking’s
material actual or potential positive or negative impacts on people or the environment over the
short- medium- or long-term. Impacts include those connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and upstream and downstream value chain including through its products and services
as well as through its business relationships. Business relationships include those in the
undertaking’s upstream and downstream value chain and are not limited to direct contractual
relationships.
44. In this context impacts on people or the environment include impacts in relation to environmental
social and governance matters.
45. The materiality assessment of a negative impact is informed by the due diligence process defined
in the international instruments of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. For actual negative impacts materiality is based on
the severity of the impact while for potential negative impacts it is based on the severity and
likelihood of the impact. Severity is based on the following factors:
(a) the scale;
(b) scope; and
7
(c) irremediable character of the impact.
In the case of a potential negative human rights impact the severity of the impact takes precedence over
its likelihood.
46. For positive impacts materiality is based on:
(a) the scale and scope of the impact for actual impacts; and (b) the scale scope and likelihood
of the impact for potential impacts.
3.5 Financial materiality
47. The scope of financial materiality for sustainability reporting is an expansion of the scope of
materiality used in the process of determining which information should be included in the
undertaking’s financial statements.
48. The financial materiality assessment corresponds to the identification of information that is
considered material for primary users of general-purpose financial reports in making decisions
relating to providing resources to the entity. In particular information is considered material for
primary users of general-purpose financial reports if omitting misstating or obscuring that
information could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that they make on the basis of
the undertaking’s sustainability statement.
49. A sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective if it triggers or could reasonably
be expected to trigger material financial effects on the undertaking. This is the case when a
sustainability matter generates risks or opportunities that have a material influence or could
reasonably be expected to have a material influence on the undertaking’s development
financial position financial performance cash flows access to finance or cost of capital over
the short- medium- or long-term. Risks and opportunities may derive from past events or future
events. The financial materiality of a sustainability matter is not constrained to matters that
are within the control of the undertaking but includes information on material risks and
opportunities attributable to business relationships beyond the scope of consolidation used
in the preparation of financial statements.
50. Dependencies on natural human and social resources can be sources of financial risks or
opportunities. Dependencies may trigger effects in two possible ways:
(a) they may influence the undertaking’s ability to continue to use or obtain the resources needed
in its business processes as well as the quality and pricing of those resources; and
(b) they may affect the undertaking’s ability to rely on relationships needed in its business
processes on acceptable terms.
51. The materiality of risks and opportunities is assessed based on a combination of the
likelihood of occurrence and the potential magnitude of the financial effects.
3.6 Material impacts or risks arising from actions to address sustainability matters
52. The undertaking’s materiality assessment may lead to the identification of situations in which its
actions to address certain impacts or risks or to benefit from certain opportunities in relation to
a sustainability matter might have material negative impacts or cause material risks in relation to
one or more other sustainability matters. For example:
(a) an action plan to decarbonise production that involves abandoning certain products
might have material negative impacts on the undertaking’s own workforce and result in material
risks due to redundancy payments; or
(b) an action plan of an automotive supplier to focus on the supply of e-vehicles might lead to
stranded assets for the production of supply parts for conventional vehicles.
53. In such situations the undertaking shall:
8
(a) disclose the existence of material negative impacts or material risks together with the actions
that generate them with a cross-reference to the topic to which the impacts or risks relate; and
(b) provide a description of how the material negative impacts or material risks are addressed
under the topic to which they relate.
3.7 Level of disaggregation
54. When needed for a proper understanding of its material impacts, risks and opportunities the
undertaking shall disaggregate the reported information:
(a) by country when there are significant variations of material impacts risks and opportunities
across countries and when presenting the information at a higher level of aggregation would
obscure material information about impacts risks or opportunities; or
(b) by significant site or by significant asset when material impacts risks and opportunities
are highly dependent on a specific location or asset.
55. When defining the appropriate level of disaggregation for reporting the undertaking shall
consider the disaggregation adopted in its materiality assessment. Depending on the
undertaking’s specific facts and circumstances a disaggregation by subsidiary may be
necessary.
56. Where data from different levels or multiple locations within a level is aggregated the
undertaking shall ensure that this aggregation does not obscure the specificity and context
necessary to interpret the information. The undertaking shall not aggregate material items that
differ in nature.
57. When the undertaking presents information disaggregated by sectors it shall adopt the ESRS
sector classification to be specified in a delegated act adopted by the Commission pursuant to
article 29b(1) third subparagraph point (ii) of Directive 2013/34/EU. When a topical or
sectorspecific ESRS requires that a specific level of disaggregation is adopted in preparing a
specific item of information the requirement in the topical or sector-specific ESRS shall prevail.
4. Due diligence
58. The outcome of the undertaking’s sustainability due diligence process (referred to as “due diligence”
in the international instruments mentioned below) informs the undertaking’s assessment of its
material impacts, risks and opportunities. ESRS do not impose any conduct requirements in
relation to due diligence; nor do they extend or modify the role of the administrative management
or supervisory bodies of the undertaking with regard to the conduct of due diligence.
59. Due diligence is the process by which undertakings identify prevent mitigate and account for how
they address the actual and potential negative impacts on the environment and people connected
with their business. These include negative impacts connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and its upstream and downstream value chain including through its products or
services as well as through its business relationships. Due diligence is an on-going practice that
responds to and may trigger changes in the undertaking’s strategy business model activities
business relationships operating sourcing and selling contexts. This process is described in the
international instruments of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
60. These international instruments identify a number of steps in the due diligence process including
the identification and assessment of negative impacts connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and its upstream and downstream value chain including through its products or
services as well as through its business relationships. Where the undertaking cannot address all
impacts at once the due diligence process allows for action to be prioritised based on the severity
and likelihood of the impacts. It is this aspect of the due diligence process that informs the
assessment of material impacts (see section 3.4 of this Standard). The identification of material
impacts also supports the identification of material sustainability risks and opportunities which
are often a product of such impacts.
61. The core elements of due diligence are reflected directly in Disclosure Requirements set out in
ESRS 2 and in the topical ESRS as illustrated below:
9
(a) embedding due diligence in governance strategy and business model3. This is addressed under:
i. ESRS 2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the
undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies;
ii. ESRS 2 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes; and
iii. ESRS 2 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy
and business model.
(b) engaging with affected stakeholders4. This is addressed under:
i. ESRS 2 GOV-2;
ii. ESRS 2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders; iii. ESRS 2 IRO-1; iv.
ESRS 2 MDR-P; and
v. Topical ESRS: reflecting the different stages and purposes of stakeholder engagement
throughout the due diligence process.
(c) identifying and assessing negative impacts on people and the environment5. This is addressed
under:
i. ESRS 2 IRO-1 (including Application Requirements related to specific sustainability
matters in the relevant ESRS); and
ii. ESRS 2 SBM-3;
(d) taking action to address negative impacts on people and the environment6 . This is addressed
under:
i. ESRS 2 MDR-A; and
ii. Topical ESRS: reflecting the range of actions including transition plans, through which
impacts are addressed.
(e) tracking the effectiveness of these efforts7. This is addressed under:
i. ESRS 2 MDR-M; ii. ESRS 2 MDR-T; and iii. Topical ESRS: regarding metrics and targets.
5. Value chain
5.1 Reporting undertaking and value chain
62. The sustainability statement shall be for the same reporting undertaking as the financial
statements. For example if the reporting undertaking is a parent company required to prepare
consolidated financial statements the sustainability statement will be for the group. This
requirement does not apply where the reporting undertaking is not required to draw-up financial
statements or where the reporting undertaking is preparing consolidated sustainability reporting
pursuant to Article 48i of Directive 2013/34/EU.
3 UN Guiding Principle 16 and its commentary; UN Interpretive Guide Questions 21 and 25 as well as OECD Guidelines Chapter
II on General Policies (paragraph A.10) and chapter IV on Human Rights (paragraph 4; and paragraph 44 of the Commentary);
and OECD Due Diligence Guidance Section II (1.1 and 1.2) and Annex Questions 14 and 15.
4 UN Guiding Principle 18 and its Commentary UN Guiding Principle 20 Commentary to UN Guiding Principles 21 and 29 and
UN Guiding Principle 31(h) and its Commentary; and the UN Interpretive Guide Questions 30 33 42 and 76 as well as OECD
Guidelines Chapter II on General Policies (paragraph A.14 and paragraph 25 of the Commentary); and OECD Due Diligence
Guidance Section II (2.1.c 2.3. 2.4.a 3.1.b and 3.1.f) and Annex Questions 8- 11.
5 UN Guiding Principles 17 18 and 24 and their Commentaries and the Commentary to UN Guiding Principle 29; and the
UN Interpretive Guide Questions 9 12-13 27-28 36-42 and 85-89 and OECD Guidelines Chapter II on General Policies
(paragraphs A.10-11 and paragraph 14 of the Commentary) and Chapter IV on Human Rights (paragraphs 1-2 and paragraphs
41-43 of the Commentary); and OECD Due Diligence Guidance Section II (2.1- 2.4) and Annex Questions 3-5 and 19-31).
6 UN Guiding Principles 19 22 and 23 and their Commentaries; and the UN Interpretive Guide Questions 11 32 46-47 6468
and 82-83 and OECD Guidelines Chapter II on General Policies (paragraphs A.12 and paragraphs 18-22 of the Commentary)
and Chapter IV on Human Rights (paragraphs 3 and 42-43 of the Commentary); and OECD Due Diligence Guidance Section
II (3.1-3.2) and Annex Questions 32-40).
7 UN Guiding Principles 20 and 31(g) and their Commentaries; and the UN Interpretive Guide Questions 49-53 and 80 and OECD Due
Diligence Guidance Section II (4.1 and 5.1) and Annex Questions 41-47.
10
63. The information about the reporting undertaking provided in the sustainability statement shall
be extended to include information on the material impacts, risks and opportunities connected
with the undertaking through its direct and indirect business relationships in the upstream
and/or downstream value chain (“value chain information”). In extending the information about
the reporting undertaking the undertaking shall include material impacts risks and opportunities
connected with its upstream and downstream value chain:
(a) following the outcome of its due diligence process and of its materiality assessment; and
(b) in accordance with any specific requirements related to the value chain in other ESRS.
64. Paragraph 63 does not require information on each and every actor in the value chain but
only the inclusion of material upstream and downstream value chain information. Different
sustainability matters can be material in relation to different parts of the undertaking’s
upstream and downstream value chain. The information shall be extended to include value chain
information only in relation to the parts of the value chain for which the matter is material.
65. The undertaking shall include material value chain information when this is necessary to:
(a) allow users of sustainability statements to understand the undertaking’s material impacts, risks
and opportunities; and/or
(b) produce a set of information that meets the qualitative characteristics of information (see Appendix
B of this Standard).
66. When determining at which level within its own operations and its upstream and downstream
value chain a material sustainability matter arises the undertaking shall use its assessment of
impacts, risks and opportunities following the double materiality principle (see chapter 3 of
this Standard).
67. When associates or joint ventures accounted for under the equity method or proportionally
consolidated in the financial statements are part of the undertaking’s value chain for example
as suppliers the undertaking shall include information related to those associates or joint
ventures in accordance with paragraph 63 consistent with the approach adopted for the other
business relationships in the value chain. In this case when determining impact metrics the
data of the associate or joint venture are not limited to the share of equity held but shall be
taken into account on the basis of the impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s
products and services through its business relationships.
5.2 Estimation using sector averages and proxies
68.
The undertaking’s ability to obtain the necessary upstream and downstream value chain
information may vary depending on various factors such as the undertaking’s contractual
arrangements the level of control that it exercises on the operations outside the consolidation
scope and its buying power. When the undertaking does not have the ability to control the
activities of its upstream and/or downstream value chain and its business relationships
obtaining value chain information may be more challenging.
69. There are circumstances where the undertaking cannot collect the information about its
upstream and downstream value chain as required by paragraph 63 after making reasonable
efforts to do so. In these circumstances the undertaking shall estimate the information to be
reported about its upstream and downstream value chain by using all reasonable and
supportable information such as sector-average data and other proxies.
70. Obtaining value chain information could also be challenging in the case of SMEs and other
upstream and/or downstream value chain entities that are not in the scope of the sustainability
reporting required by Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU (see ESRS 2 BP-2
Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances).
11
71. With reference to policies, actions and targets, the undertaking’s reporting shall include
upstream and/or downstream value chain information to the extent that those policies actions
and targets involve actors in the value chain. With reference to metrics in many cases in
particular for environmental matters for which proxies are available the undertaking may be
able to comply with the reporting requirements without collecting data from the actors in its
upstream and downstream value chain especially from SMEs for example when calculating
the undertaking’s GHG Scope 3 emissions.
72. The incorporation of estimates made using sector-average data or other proxies shall not result
in information that does not meet the qualitative characteristics of information (see chapter 2
and section 7.2 Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty of this Standard).
6. Time horizons
6.1
Reporting period
73.
The reporting period for the undertaking’s sustainability statement shall be consistent with that
of its financial statements.
Linking past, present and future
6.2
74.
The undertaking shall establish appropriate linkages in its sustainability statement between
retrospective and forward-looking information when relevant to foster a clear understanding of
how historical information relates to future-oriented information.
Reporting progress against the base year
6.3
75. A base year is the historical reference date or period for which information is available and against
which subsequent information can be compared over time.
76. The undertaking shall present comparative information in respect of the base year for amounts
reported in the current period when reporting the developments and progress towards a target
unless the relevant Disclosure Requirement already defines how to report progress. The
undertaking may also include historical information about achieved milestones between the base
year and the reporting period when this is relevant information.
6.4 Definition of short-, medium- and long-term for reporting purposes
77. When preparing its sustainability statement the undertaking shall adopt the following time
intervals as of the end of the reporting period:
(a) for the short-term time horizon: the period adopted by the undertaking as the
reporting period in its financial statements;
(b) for the medium-term time horizon: from the end of the short-term reporting period defined in (a) up
to 5 years; and
(c) for the long-term time horizon: more than 5 years.
78. The undertaking shall use an additional breakdown for the long-term time horizon when impacts
or actions are expected in a period longer than 5 years if necessary to provide relevant information
to users of sustainability statements.
79. If different definitions of medium- or long-term time horizons are required for specific items of
disclosure in other ESRS the definitions in those ESRS shall prevail.
80. There may be circumstances where the use of the medium- or long-term time horizons defined in
paragraph 77 results in non-relevant information as the undertaking uses a different definition for
12
(i) its processes of identification and management of material impacts, risks and opportunities
or (ii) the definition of its actions and setting targets. These circumstances may be due to industry-
specific characteristics such as cash flow and business cycles the expected duration of capital
investments the time horizons over which the users of sustainability statements conduct their
assessments or the planning horizons typically used in the undertaking’s industry for decision-
making. In these circumstances the undertaking may adopt a different definition of medium- and/or
long- term time horizons (see ESRS 2 BP–2 paragraph 9).
81. References to “short-term” “medium-term” and “long-term” in ESRS refer to the time horizon as
determined by the undertaking according to the provisions in paragraphs 77 to 80.
7. Preparation and presentation of sustainability information
82. This chapter provides general requirements to be applied when preparing and presenting sustainability
information.
7.1 Presenting comparative information
83. The undertaking shall disclose comparative information in respect of the previous period for all
quantitative metrics and monetary amounts disclosed in the current period. When relevant to an
understanding of the current period’s sustainability statement the undertaking shall also disclose
comparative information for narrative disclosures.
84. When the undertaking reports comparative information that differs from the information reported in
the previous period it shall disclose:
(a) the difference between the figure reported in the previous period and the revised comparative
figure; and
(b) the reasons for the revision of the figure.
85. Sometimes it is impracticable to adjust comparative information for one or more prior periods to
achieve comparability with the current period. For example data might not have been collected in
the prior period(s) in a way that allows either retrospective application of a new definition of a metric
or target or retrospective restatement to correct a prior period error and it may be impracticable to
recreate the information (see ESRS 2 BP-2). When it is impracticable to adjust comparative
information for one or more prior periods the undertaking shall disclose this fact.
86. When an ESRS requires the undertaking to present more than one comparative period for a metric
or datapoint the requirements of that ESRS shall prevail.
7.2 Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty
87. When quantitative metrics and monetary amounts including upstream and downstream value
chain information (see chapter 5 of this Standard) cannot be measured directly and can only
be estimated measurement uncertainty may arise.
88. An undertaking shall disclose information to enable users to understand the most significant
uncertainties affecting the quantitative metrics and monetary amounts reported in its
sustainability statement.
89. The use of reasonable assumptions and estimates including scenario or sensitivity analysis
is an essential part of preparing sustainability-related information and does not undermine the
usefulness of that information provided that the assumptions and estimates are accurately
described and explained. Even a high level of measurement uncertainty would not necessarily
prevent such an assumption or estimate from providing useful information or meeting the
qualitative characteristics of information (see Appendix B of this Standard).
90. Data and assumptions used in preparing the sustainability statement shall be consistent to the
extent possible with the corresponding financial data and assumptions used in the undertaking’s
financial statements.
13
91. Some ESRS require the disclosure of information such as explanations about possible future
events that have uncertain outcomes. In judging whether information about such possible future
events is material the undertaking shall refer to the criteria in Chapter 3 of this Standard and
consider:
(a) the potential financial effects of the events (the possible outcome);
(b) the severity and likelihood of the impacts on people or the environment resulting from the
possible events taking account of the factors of severity specified in paragraph 45; and
(c) the full range of possible outcomes and the likelihood of the possible outcomes within that
range.
92. When assessing the possible outcomes the undertaking shall consider all relevant facts and
circumstances including information about low-probability and high-impact outcomes which
when aggregated could become material. For example the undertaking might be exposed to
several impacts or risks each of which could cause the same type of disruption such as
disruptions to the undertaking’s supply chain. Information about an individual source of risk
might not be material if disruption from that source is highly unlikely to occur. However
information about the aggregate risk of supply chain disruption from all sources might be
material (see ESRS 2 BP-2).
7.3 Updating disclosures about events after the end of the reporting period
93. In some cases the undertaking may receive information after the reporting period but before
the management report is approved for issuance. If such information provides evidence or
insights about conditions existing at period end the undertaking shall where appropriate
update estimates and sustainability disclosures in the light of the new information.
94. When such information provides evidence or insights about material transactions other events
and conditions that arise after the end of the reporting period the undertaking shall where
appropriate provide narrative information indicating the existence nature and potential
consequences of these post-year end events.
7.4 Changes in preparation or presentation of sustainability information
95. The definition and calculation of metrics including metrics used to set targets and monitor
progress towards them shall be consistent over time. The undertaking shall provide restated
comparative figures unless it is impracticable to do so (see ESRS 2 BP-2) when it has:
(a) redefined or replaced a metric or target;
(b) identified new information in relation to the estimated figures disclosed in the preceding period
and the new information provides evidence of circumstances that existed in that period.
7.5 Reporting errors in prior periods
96. The undertaking shall correct material prior period errors by restating the comparative amounts
for the prior period(s) disclosed unless it is impracticable to do so. This requirement does not
extend to reporting periods before the first year of application of ESRS by the undertaking.
97. Prior period errors are omissions from and misstatements in the undertaking’s sustainability
statement for one or more prior periods. Such errors arise from a failure to use or misuse of
reliable information that:
(a) was available when the management report that includes the sustainability statement for those
periods was authorised for issuance; and
(b) could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and considered in the preparation of
sustainability disclosures included in these reports.
98. Such errors include: the effects of mathematical mistakes mistakes in applying the definitions
for metrics or targets oversights or misinterpretations of facts and fraud.
14
99. Potential errors in the current period discovered in that period are corrected before the
management report is authorised for issuance. However material errors are sometimes only
discovered in a subsequent period.
100. When it is impracticable to determine the effect of an error on all prior periods presented the
undertaking shall restate the comparative information to correct the error from the earliest date
practicable. When correcting disclosures for a prior period the undertaking shall not use
hindsight either in making assumptions about what the management’s intentions would have
been in a prior period or in estimating the amounts disclosed in a prior period. This requirement
applies to correction of both backward-looking and forward- looking disclosures.
101. Corrections of errors are distinguished from changes in estimates. Estimates may need to be
revised as additional information becomes known (see ESRS 2 BP-2).
7.6 Consolidated reporting and subsidiary exemption
102. When the undertaking is reporting at a consolidated level it shall perform its assessment of
material impacts, risks and opportunities for the entire consolidated group regardless of its
group legal structure. It shall ensure that all subsidiaries are covered in a way that allows for the
unbiased identification of material impacts risks and opportunities. Criteria and thresholds for
assessing an impact risk or opportunity as material shall be determined based on chapter 3 of
this Standard.
103. Where the undertaking identifies significant differences between material impacts, risks or
opportunities at group level and material impacts risks or opportunities of one or more of its
subsidiaries the undertaking shall provide an adequate description of the impacts risks and
opportunities as appropriate of the subsidiary or subsidiaries concerned.
104. When assessing whether the differences between material impacts, risks or opportunities at
group level and material impacts risks or opportunities of one or more of its subsidiaries are
significant the undertaking may consider different circumstances such as whether the
subsidiary or subsidiaries operate in a different sector than the rest of the group or the
circumstances reflected in section 3.7 Level of disaggregation.
7.7 Classified and sensitive information, and information on intellectual property, know-how or
results of innovation
105. The undertaking is not required to disclose classified information or sensitive information
even if such information is considered material.
106. When disclosing information about its strategy, plans and actions where a specific piece of
information corresponding to intellectual property know-how or the results of innovation is
relevant to meet the objective of a Disclosure Requirement the undertaking may nevertheless
omit that specific piece of information if it:
(a) is secret in the sense that it is not as a body or in the precise configuration and assembly of its
components generally known among or readily accessible to persons within the circles that
normally deal with the kind of information in question;
(b) has commercial value because it is secret; and
(c) has been subject to reasonable steps by the undertaking to keep it secret.
107. If the undertaking omits classified information or sensitive information or a specific piece of
information corresponding to intellectual property know-how or the results of innovation
because it meets the criteria established in the previous paragraph it shall comply with the
disclosure requirement in question by disclosing all other required information.
108. The undertaking shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that beyond the omission of the
classified information or sensitive information or of the specific piece of information
corresponding to intellectual property know-how or the results of innovation the overall
relevance of the disclosure in question is not impaired.
15
7.8 Reporting on opportunities
109. When reporting on opportunities the disclosure should consist of descriptive information
allowing the reader to understand the opportunity for the undertaking or the entire sector. When
reporting on opportunities the undertaking shall consider the materiality of the information to
be disclosed. In this context it shall consider among other factors:
(a) whether the opportunity is currently being pursued and is incorporated in its general strategy
as opposed to a general opportunity for the undertaking or the sector; and
(b) whether the inclusion of quantitative measures of anticipated financial effects is appropriate
taking into account the number of assumptions that it could require and consequential
uncertainty.
8. Structure of the sustainability statement
110. This chapter provides the basis for the presentation of the information about sustainability
matters prepared in compliance with Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU (i.e. the
sustainability statement) within the undertaking’s management report. Such information is
presented in a dedicated section of the management report identified as the sustainability
statement. Appendix F Example of structure of ESRS sustainability statement of this Standard
provides an illustrative example of a sustainability statement structured according to the
requirements of this chapter.
8.1 General presentation requirement
111. Sustainability information shall be presented:
(a) in a way that allows a distinction between information required by disclosures in ESRS
and other information included in the management report; and
(b) under a structure that facilitates access to and understanding of the sustainability statement in
a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable.
8.2 Content and structure of the sustainability statement
112. Except for the possibility to incorporate information by reference in accordance with section 9.1
Incorporation by reference of this Standard the undertaking shall report all the applicable
disclosures required by ESRS in accordance with chapter 1 of this Standard within a dedicated
section of the management report.
113. The undertaking shall include in its sustainability statement the disclosures pursuant to Article
8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and the Council8 and to the
Commission Delegated Regulations that specify the content and other modalities of those
disclosures. The undertaking shall ensure that these disclosures are separately identifiable
within the sustainability statement. The disclosures relating to each of the environmental
objectives defined in the Taxonomy Regulation shall be presented together in a clearly
identifiable part of the environmental section of the sustainability statement. These disclosures
are not subject to the provisions of ESRS with the exception of this paragraph and the first
sentence of paragraph 115 of this standard.
114. When the undertaking includes in its sustainability statement additional disclosures stemming
from (i) other legislation which requires the undertaking to disclose sustainability information or
(ii) generally accepted sustainability reporting standards and frameworks including non-
8 Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate
sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (OJ L 198 22.6.2020 p. 13).
16
mandatory guidance and sector-specific guidance published by other standardsetting bodies
(such as technical material issued by the International Sustainability Standards Board or the
Global Reporting Initiative) such disclosures shall:
(a) be clearly identified with an appropriate reference to the related legislation standard or
framework (see ESRS 2 BP-2 paragraph 15);
(b) meet the requirements for qualitative characteristics of information specified in chapter 2 and
Appendix B of this standard.
115. The undertaking shall structure its sustainability statement in four parts in the following order:
general information environmental information (including disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of
Regulation (EU) 2020/852) social information and governance information. Respecting the
provision in section 3.6 Material impacts or risks arising from actions to address sustainability
matters of this Standard when information provided in one part contains information to be
reported in another part the undertaking may refer in one part to information presented in
another part avoiding duplications. The undertaking may apply the detailed structure illustrated
in Appendix F of this Standard.
116. The disclosures required by sector-specific ESRS shall be grouped by reporting area and where
applicable by sustainability topic. They shall be presented alongside the disclosures required
by ESRS 2 and the corresponding topical ESRS.
117. Where the undertaking develops material entity-specific disclosures in accordance with
paragraph 11 it shall report those disclosures alongside the most relevant sector-agnostic and
sector-specific disclosures.
9. Linkages with other parts of corporate reporting and connected information
118. The undertaking shall provide information that enables users of its sustainability statement to
understand the connections between different pieces of information in the statement and the
connections between the information in the sustainability statement and other information that
the undertaking discloses in other parts of its corporate reporting.
9.1 Incorporation by reference
119. Provided that the conditions in paragraph 120 are met information prescribed by a Disclosure
Requirement of an ESRS including a specific datapoint prescribed by a Disclosure
Requirement may be incorporated in the sustainability statement by reference to:
(a) another section of the management report;
(b) the financial statements;
(c) the corporate governance statement (if not part of the management report);
(d) the remuneration report required by Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council9;
(e) the universal registration document as referred to in Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2017/112910; and
(f) public disclosures under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (Pillar 3 disclosures)11. If the undertaking incorporates by reference information from Pillar
3 disclosures it shall ensure that the information matches the scope of consolidation used for the
sustainability statement by complementing the incorporated information with additional elements
as necessary.
9 Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in
listed companies (OJ L 184 14.7.2007 p. 17).
10 Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published
when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market and repealing Directive 2003/71/EC (OJ
L 168 30.6.2017 p. 12).
11 Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for
credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176 27.6.2013 p. 1).
17
120. The undertaking may incorporate information by reference to the documents or part of the
documents listed in paragraph 119 provided that the disclosures incorporated by reference:
(a) constitute a separate element of information and are clearly identified in the document concerned
as addressing the relevant Disclosure Requirement or the relevant specific datapoint prescribed
by a Disclosure Requirement;
(b) are published before or at the same time as the management report;
(c) are in the same language as the sustainability statement;
(d) are subject to at least the same level of assurance as the sustainability statement; and (e) meet
the same technical digitalisation requirements as the sustainability statement.
121. Provided that the conditions established in paragraph 120 are met information prescribed by a
Disclosure Requirement of an ESRS including a specific datapoint prescribed by a Disclosure
Requirement may be incorporated in the sustainability statement by reference to the
undertaking’s report prepared according to EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS)
Regulation (EU) No 1221/200912. In this case the undertaking shall ensure that the information
incorporated by reference is produced using the same basis for preparation of ESRS
information including scope of consolidation and treatment of value chain information.
122. In the preparation of its sustainability statement using incorporation by reference the
undertaking shall consider the overall cohesiveness of the reported information and ensure that
the incorporation by reference does not impair the readability of the sustainability statement.
Appendix G Example of incorporation by reference of this Standard is an illustrative example of
incorporation by reference (See ESRS 2 BP-2).
9.2 Connected information and connectivity with financial statements
123. The undertaking shall describe the relationships between different pieces of information. Doing
so could require connecting narrative information on governance strategy and risk management
to related metrics and targets. For example in providing connected information the
undertaking may need to explain the effect or likely effect of its strategy on its financial
statements or financial plans or explain how its strategy relates to metrics and targets used to
measure progress against performance. Furthermore the undertaking may need to explain how
its use of natural resources and changes within its supply chain could amplify change or
reduce its material impacts, risks and opportunities. It may need to link this information to
information about current or anticipated financial effects on its production costs to its strategic
response to mitigate such impacts or risks and to its related investment in new assets. The
undertaking may also need to link narrative information to the related metrics and targets and
to information in the financial statements. Information that describes connections shall be clear
and concise.
124. When the sustainability statement includes monetary amounts or other quantitative data
points that exceed a threshold of materiality and that are presented in the financial statements
(direct connectivity between information disclosed in sustainability statement and information
disclosed in financial statements) the undertaking shall include a reference to the relevant
paragraph of its financial statements where the corresponding information can be found.
125. The sustainability statement may include monetary amounts or other quantitative datapoints
that exceed a threshold of materiality and that are either an aggregation of or a part of
monetary amounts or quantitative data presented in the undertaking’s financial statements
(indirect connectivity between information disclosed in sustainability statement and information
disclosed in financial statements). If this is the case the undertaking shall explain how these
amounts or datapoints in the sustainability statement relate to the most relevant amounts
presented in the financial statements. This disclosure shall include a reference to the line item
and/or to the relevant paragraphs of its financial statements where the corresponding
12 Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary
participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) repealing Regulation (EC) No
761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC (OJ L 342 22.12.2009 p. 1).
18
information can be found. Where appropriate a reconciliation may be provided and it may be
presented in a tabular form.
126. In the case of information not covered by paragraphs 124 and 125 the undertaking shall explain
based on a threshold of materiality the consistency of significant data assumptions and
qualitative information included in its sustainability statement with the corresponding data
assumptions and qualitative information included in the financial statements. This may occur
when the sustainability statement includes:
(a) monetary amounts or other quantitative data linked to monetary amounts or other quantitative
data presented in the financial statements; or
(b) qualitative information linked to qualitative information presented in the financial statements.
127. Consistency as required by paragraph 126 shall be at the level of a single datapoint and shall
include a reference to the relevant line item or paragraph of notes to the financial statements.
When significant data assumptions and qualitative information are not consistent the
undertaking shall state that fact and explain the reason.
128. Examples of items for which the explanation in paragraph 126 is required are:
(a) when the same metric is presented as of the reporting date in financial statements and as a
forecast for future periods in the sustainability statement; and
(b) when macroeconomic or business projections are used to develop metrics in the
sustainability statement and they are also relevant in estimating the recoverable amount of
assets the amount of liabilities or provisions in financial statements.
129. Topical and sector-specific ESRS may include requirements to include reconciliations or to
illustrate consistency of data and assumptions for specific Disclosure Requirements. In such
cases the requirements in those ESRS shall prevail.
10 Transitional provisions
10.1 Transitional provision related to entity-specific disclosures
130. The extent to which sustainability matters are covered by ESRS is expected to evolve as
further Disclosure Requirements are developed. Therefore the need for entity-specific
disclosures is likely to decrease over time in particular as a result of the future adoption of sector
specific standards.
131. When defining its entity-specific disclosures the undertaking may adopt transitional measures
for their preparation in the first three annual sustainability statements under which it may as
a priority:
(a) introduce in its reporting those entity-specific disclosures that it reported in prior periods
if these disclosures meet or are adapted to meet the qualitative characteristics of
information referred to under chapter 2 of this Standard; and
(b) complement its disclosures prepared on the basis of the topical ESRS with an appropriate
set of additional disclosures to cover sustainability matters that are material for the
undertaking in its sector(s) using available best practice and/or available frameworks or
reporting standards such as IFRS industry-based guidance and GRI Sector Standards.
10.2 Transitional provision related to chapter 5 Value chain
132. For the first 3 years of the undertaking’s sustainability reporting under the ESRS in the event
that not all the necessary information regarding its upstream and downstream value chain is
available the undertaking shall explain the efforts made to obtain the necessary information
about its upstream and downstream value chain the reasons why not all of the necessary
information could be obtained and its plans to obtain the necessary information in the future.
19
133. For the first 3 years of its sustainability reporting under the ESRS in order to take account of
the difficulties that undertakings may encounter in gathering information from actors throughout
their value chain and in order to limit the burden for SMEs in the value chain:
(a) when disclosing information on policies, actions and targets in accordance with ESRS2
and other ESRS the undertaking may limit upstream and downstream value chain
information to information available in-house such as data already available to the
undertaking and publicly available information; and
(b) when disclosing metrics the undertaking is not required to include upstream and
downstream value chain information except for datapoints derived from other EU
legislation as listed in ESRS 2 Appendix B.
134. Paragraphs 132 and 133 apply irrespective of whether or not the relevant actor in the value
chain is an SME.
135. Starting from the fourth year of its reporting under the ESRS the undertaking shall include
upstream and/or downstream value chain information according to paragraph 63. In this
context the information required by ESRS to be obtained from SME undertakings in the
undertaking’s upstream and/or downstream value chain will not exceed the content of the future
ESRS for listed SMEs.
10.3 Transitional provision related to section 7.1 Presenting comparative information
136. To ease the first-time application of this Standard the undertaking is not required to disclose the
comparative information required by section 7.1 Presenting comparative information in the first
year of preparation of the sustainability statement under the ESRS. For disclosure
requirements listed in Appendix C List of phased-in Disclosure Requirements this transitional
provision applies with reference to the first year of mandatory application of the phased-in
disclosure requirement.
10.4 Transitional provision: List of Disclosure Requirements that are phased-in
137. Appendix C List of phased-in Disclosure Requirements in this Standard sets phase-in provisions
for the Disclosure Requirements or datapoints of Disclosure Requirements in ESRS that may
be omitted or that are not applicable in the first year(s) of preparation of the sustainability
statement under the ESRS.
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 1 and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
Entity specific disclosures
AR 1. The entity-specific disclosures shall enable users to understand the undertaking’s impacts,
risks and opportunities in relation to environmental social or governance matters.
AR 2. When developing entity-specific disclosures the undertaking shall ensure that:
(a) the disclosures meet the qualitative characteristics of information as set out in chapter
2 Qualitative characteristics of information; and
(b) its disclosures include where applicable all material information related to the reporting
areas of governance; strategy; impact, risk and opportunity management; and
metrics and targets (see ESRS 2 chapters 2 to 5).
20
AR 3. When determining the usefulness of metrics for inclusion in its entity-specific disclosures the
undertaking shall consider whether:
(a) its chosen performance metrics provide insight into:
i. how effective its practices are in reducing negative outcomes and/or increasing
positive outcomes for people and the environment (for impacts); and/or
ii. the likelihood that its practices result in financial effects on the undertaking (for
risks and opportunities);
(b) the measured outcomes are sufficiently reliable meaning that they do not involve an
excessive number of assumptions and unknowns that would render the metrics too
arbitrary to provide a faithful representation; and
(c) it has provided sufficient contextual information to interpret performance metrics
appropriately and whether variations in such contextual information may impact the
comparability of the metrics over time.
AR 4. When developing its entity-specific disclosures the undertaking shall carefully consider:
(a) comparability between undertakings while still ensuring relevance of the information
provided recognising that comparability may be limited for entity- specific disclosures.
The undertaking shall consider whether the available and relevant frameworks
initiatives reporting standards and benchmarks (such as technical material issued by the
International Sustainability Standards Board or the Global Reporting Initiative) provide
elements that can support comparability to the maximum extent possible; and
(b) comparability over time: consistency of methodologies and disclosures is a key factor for
achieving comparability over time.
AR 5. Further guidance for developing entity-specific disclosures can be found by considering the information
required under topical ESRS that addresses similar sustainability matters.
Double materiality
Stakeholders and their relevance to the materiality assessment process
AR 6. In addition to the categories of stakeholder listed in paragraph 22 common categories of
stakeholders are: employees and other workers suppliers consumers customers end-
users local communities and persons in vulnerable situations and public authorities including
regulators supervisors and central banks.
AR 7. Nature may be considered as a silent stakeholder. In this case ecological data and data on
the conservation of species may support the undertaking’s materiality assessment.
AR 8. Materiality assessment is informed by dialogue with affected stakeholders. The undertaking
may engage with affected stakeholders or their representatives (such as employees or trade
unions) along with users of sustainability reporting and other experts to provide inputs or
feedback on its conclusions regarding its material impacts, risks and opportunities.
Assessment of impact materiality
AR 9. In assessing impact materiality and determining the material matters to be reported the undertaking
shall consider the following three steps:
(a) understanding of the context in relation to its impacts including its activities business
relationships and stakeholders;
(b) identification of actual and potential impacts (both negative and positive) including
through engaging with stakeholders and experts. In this step the undertaking may rely
on scientific and analytical research on impacts on sustainability matters;
(c) assessment of the materiality of its actual and potential impacts and determination of
the material matters. In this step the undertaking shall adopt thresholds to determine
which of the impacts will be covered in its sustainability statement.
21
Characteristics of severity
AR 10. The severity is determined by the following factors:
(a) scale: how grave the negative impact is or how beneficial the positive impact is for people or
the environment;
(b) scope: how widespread the negative or positive impacts are. In the case of environmental
impacts the scope may be understood as the extent of environmental damage or a
geographical perimeter. In the case of impacts on people the scope may be understood as the
number of people adversely affected; and
(c) irremediable character: whether and to what extent the negative impacts could be remediated
i.e. restoring the environment or affected people to their prior state.
AR 11. Any of the three characteristics (scale scope and irremediable character) can make a negative
impact severe. In the case of a potential negative human rights impact the severity of the
impact takes precedence over its likelihood.
Impacts connected with the undertaking
AR 12. As an illustration:
(a) if the undertaking uses cobalt in its products that is mined using child labour the
negative impact (i.e. child labour) is connected with the undertaking’s products through
the tiers of business relationships in its upstream value chain. These relationships
include the smelter and minerals trader and the mining enterprise that
uses child labour; and
(b) if the undertaking provides financial loans to an enterprise for business activities that
in breach of agreed standards result in the contamination of water and land
surrounding the operations this negative impact is connected with the undertaking
through its relationship with the enterprise it provides the loans to.
Assessment of financial materiality
AR 13. The following are examples of how impacts and dependencies are sources of risks or opportunities:
(a) when the undertaking’s business model depends on a natural resource – for example
water – it is likely to be affected by changes in the quality availability and pricing of that
resource;
(b) when the undertaking’s activities result in negative impacts e.g. on local communities
the activities could become subject to stricter government regulation and/or the impact
could trigger consequences of a reputational nature. These might have negative effects
on the undertaking’s brand and higher recruitment costs might arise; and
(c) when the undertaking’s business partners face material sustainability-related risks the
undertaking could be exposed to related consequences as well.
AR 14. The identification of risks and opportunities that affect or could reasonably be expected to
affect the undertaking’s financial position financial performance cash flows access to finance
or cost of capital over the short- medium- or long-term is the starting point for financial
materiality assessment. In this context the undertaking shall consider:
(a) the existence of dependencies on natural and social resources as sources of financial
effects (see paragraph 50); (b) their classification as sources of:
i. risks (contributing to negative deviation in future expected cash inflows or increase
in deviation in future expected cash outflows and/or negative deviation from an
expected change in capitals not recognised in the financial statements); or
ii. opportunities (contributing to positive deviation in future expected cash inflows or
decrease in deviation in future cash outflows and/or positive deviation from
expected change in capitals not recognised in financial statements).
22
AR 15. Once the undertaking has identified its risks and opportunities it shall determine which of
them are material for reporting. This shall be based on a combination of (i) the likelihood of
occurrence and (ii) the potential magnitude of financial effects determined on the basis of
appropriate thresholds. In this step it shall consider the contribution of those risks and
opportunities to financial effects in the short- medium- and long-term based on:
(a) scenarios/forecasts that are deemed likely to materialise; and
(b) potential financial effects related to sustainability matters deriving either from situations
with a below the “more likely than not” threshold or assets/liabilities not or not yet reflected
in financial statements. This includes:
i. potential situations that following the occurrence of future events may affect cash flow
generation potential;
ii. capitals that are not recognised as assets from an accounting and financial reporting
perspective but have a significant influence on financial performance such as natural
intellectual (organisational) human social and relationship capitals; and
iii. possible future events that may have an influence on the evolution of such capitals.
Sustainability matters to be included in the materiality assessment
AR 16. When performing its materiality assessment the undertaking shall consider the following list of
sustainability matters covered in the topical ESRS. When as a result of the undertaking’s
materiality assessment (see ESRS 2 IRO-1) a given sustainability matter in this list is assessed
to be material the undertaking shall report according to the corresponding Disclosure
Requirements of the relevant topical ESRS. Using this list is not a substitute for the process of
determining material matters. This list is a tool to support the undertaking’s materiality
assessment. The undertaking still needs to consider its own specific circumstances when
determining its material matters. The undertaking where necessary also shall develop entity-
specific disclosures on material impacts risks and opportunities not covered by ESRS as
described in paragraph 11 of this Standard.
Topical
Sustainability matters covered in topical ESRS
ESRS
Topic Sub-topic Sub-sub-topics
ESRS E1 Climate • Climate change adaptation
change • Climate change mitigation
• Energy
ESRS E2 Pollution • Pollution of air
• Pollution of water
• Pollution of soil
• Pollution of living
organisms and food
resources
• Substances of concern
• Substances of very high
concern
• Microplastics
ESRS E3 Water and • Water • Water consumption
marine • Marine resources • Water withdrawals
resources • Water discharges
• Water discharges in the oceans
• Extraction and use of marine
resources
23
ESRS E4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of • Climate Change
and biodiversity loss • Land-use change fresh water-use
ecosystems change and sea-use change
• Direct exploitation
• Invasive alien species
• Pollution
• Others
Impacts on the state of Examples:
species • Species population size
• Species global extinction risk
Impacts on the extent and Examples:
condition of ecosystems • Land degradation
• Desertification
• Soil sealing
Impacts and dependencies
on ecosystem services
Topical
Sustainability matters covered in topical ESRS
ESRS
Topic Sub-topic Sub-sub-topics
ESRS E5 Circular • Resources inflows
economy including resource use
• Resource outflows related
to products and services
• Waste
ESRS S1 Own Working conditions • Secure employment
workforce • Working time
• Adequate wages
• Social dialogue
• Freedom of association the
existence of works councils and the
information consultation and
participation rights of workers
• Collective bargaining including rate
of workers covered by collective
agreements
• Work-life balance
• Health and safety
Equal treatment and • Gender equality and equal pay for
opportunities for all work of equal value
• Training and skills development
• Employment and inclusion of persons
with disabilities
• Measures against violence and
harassment in the workplace
• Diversity
Other work-related rights • Child labour
• Forced labour
• Adequate housing
• Privacy
24
ESRS S2 Workers in Working conditions • Secure employment
the value • Working time
chain • Adequate wages
• Social dialogue
• Freedom of association including the
existence of work councils
• Collective bargaining
• Work-life balance
• Health and safety
Equal treatment and • Gender equality and equal pay for
opportunities for all work of equal value
• Training and skills development
• The employment and inclusion of
persons with disabilities
• Measures against violence and
harassment in the workplace
• Diversity
Other work-related rights • Child labour
• Forced labour
• Adequate housing
• Water and sanitation
• Privacy
Topical
Sustainability matters covered in topical ESRS
ESRS
Topic Sub-topic Sub-sub-topics
ESRS S3 Affected Communities’ economic • Adequate housing
communities social and cultural rights • Adequate food
• Water and sanitation
• Land-related impacts
• Security-related impacts
Communities’ civil and • Freedom of expression
political rights • Freedom of assembly
• Impacts on human rights defenders
Rights of indigenous • Free prior and informed consent
peoples • Self-determination
• Cultural rights
ESRS S4 Consumers Information-related impacts • Privacy
and end- for consumers and/or end- • Freedom of expression
users users • Access to (quality) information
Personal safety of • Health and safety
consumers and/or • Security of a person
endusers • Protection of children
Social inclusion of • Non-discrimination
consumers and/or • Access to products and services
endusers • Responsible marketing practices
ESRS G1 Business • Corporate culture
conduct • Protection of
whistleblowers
• Animal welfare
• Political engagement
• Management of
relationships with suppliers
including payment
practices
25
Corruption and bribery Prevention and detection including
training Incidents
Estimation using sector averages and proxies
AR 17. When the undertaking cannot collect upstream and downstream value chain information as
required by paragraph 63 after making reasonable efforts to do so it shall estimate the
information to be reported using all reasonable and supportable information that is available to
the undertaking at the reporting date without undue cost or effort. This includes but is not limited
to internal and external information such as data from indirect sources sectoraverage data
sample analyses market and peer groups data other proxies or spend-based data.
Content and structure of the sustainability statement
AR 18. As an illustration for paragraph 115 in section 8.2 Content and structure of the sustainability
statement of this Standard the undertaking that covers environmental and social matters in the
same policy may cross-refer. That means that the undertaking may report on the policy in its
environmental disclosures and cross-refer to it from the relevant social disclosures or vice
versa. Consolidated presentation of policies across topics is allowed.
Appendix B: Qualitative characteristics of information
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 1 and has the same authority as the other parts of the
Standard. This appendix defines the qualitative characteristics that the information presented in the
sustainability statement prepared according to ESRS shall meet.
Relevance
QC 1. Sustainability information is relevant when it may make a difference in the decisions of users
under a double materiality approach (see chapter 3 of this Standard).
QC 2. Information may make a difference in a decision even if some users choose not to take
advantage of it or are already aware of it from other sources. Sustainability information may
impact decisions of users if it has predictive value confirmatory value or both. Information has
predictive value if it can be used as an input to processes employed by users to predict future
outcomes. Sustainability information does not need to be a prediction or forecast to have
predictive value but rather has predictive value if employed by users in making their own
predictions.
QC 3.
Information has confirmatory value if it provides feedback about (confirms or changes) previous
evaluations.
QC 4. Materiality is an entity-specific aspect of relevance based on the nature or magnitude or both
of the items to which the information relates as assessed in the context of the undertaking’s
sustainability reporting (see chapter 3 of this Standard).
Faithful representation
QC 5. To be useful the information must not only represent relevant phenomena it must also faithfully
represent the substance of the phenomena that it purports to represent. Faithful representation
requires information to be (i) complete (ii) neutral and (iii) accurate.
26
QC 6. A complete depiction of an impact a risk or an opportunity includes all material information
necessary for the users to understand that impact risk or opportunity. This includes how the
undertaking has adapted its strategy risk management and governance in response to that
impact risk or opportunity as well as the metrics identified to set targets and measure
performance.
QC 7. A neutral depiction is without bias in its selection or disclosure of information. Information is
neutral if it is not slanted weighted emphasised de-emphasised or otherwise manipulated to
make it more likely that the users will receive that information favourably or unfavourably. It shall
be balanced so as to cover favourable/positive and unfavourable/negative aspects. Both
negative and positive material impacts from an impact materiality perspective as well as
material risks and opportunities from a financial materiality perspective shall receive equal
attention. Any aspirational sustainability information for example targets or plans shall cover
both aspirations and factors that could prevent the undertaking from achieving these aspirations
in order to have a neutral depiction.
QC 8. Neutrality is supported by the exercise of prudence which is the exercise of caution when making
judgements under conditions of uncertainty. Information shall not be netted or compensated to
be neutral. The exercise of prudence means that opportunities are not overstated and risks
are not understated. Equally the exercise of prudence does not allow for the understatement of
opportunities or the overstatement of risks. The undertaking may present net information in
addition to gross values if such presentation does not obscure relevant information and includes
a clear explanation about the effects of the netting and the
reasons for the netting.
QC 9. Information can be accurate without being perfectly precise in all respects. Accurate information
implies that the undertaking has implemented adequate processes and internal controls to avoid
material errors or material misstatements. As such estimates shall be presented with a clear
emphasis on their possible limitations and associated uncertainty (see section 7.2 of this
Standard). The amount of precision needed and attainable and the factors that make
information accurate depend on the nature of the information and the nature of the matters it
addresses. For example accuracy requires that:
(a) factual information is free from material error;
(b) descriptions are precise;
(c) estimates approximations and forecasts are clearly identified as such;
(d) no material errors have been made in selecting and applying an appropriate process for
developing an estimate approximation or forecast and the inputs to that process are
reasonable and supportable;
(e) assertions are reasonable and based on information of sufficient quality and quantity; and
(f) information about judgements about the future faithfully reflects both those judgements and
the information on which they are based.
Comparability
QC 10. Sustainability information is comparable when it can be compared with information provided by
the undertaking in previous periods and can be compared with information provided by other
undertakings in particular those with similar activities or operating within the same industry. A
point of reference for comparison can be a target a baseline an industry benchmark
comparable information from either other undertakings or from an internationally recognised
organisation etc.
QC 11. Consistency is related to but is not the same as comparability. Consistency refers to the use of
the same approaches or methods for the same sustainability matter from period to period by
the undertaking and other undertakings. Consistency helps to achieve the goal of comparability.
QC 12. Comparability is not uniformity. For information to be comparable like components shall look
alike and different components shall look different. Comparability of sustainability information is
not enhanced by making unlike things look alike any more than it is enhanced by making like
things look different.
27
Verifiability
QC 13. Verifiability helps to give users confidence that information is complete neutral and accurate.
Sustainability information is verifiable if it is possible to corroborate the information itself or the
inputs used to derive it.
QC 14. Verifiability means that various knowledgeable and independent observers could reach
consensus although not necessarily complete agreement that a particular depiction is a faithful
representation. Sustainability information shall be provided in a way that enhances its
verifiability for example:
(a) including information that can be corroborated by comparing it with other information available
to users about the undertaking’s business about other businesses or about the external
environment;
(b) providing information about inputs and methods of calculation used to produce estimates or
approximations; and
(c) providing information reviewed and agreed by the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies or their committees.
QC 15. Some sustainability information will be in the form of explanations or forward-looking information.
Those disclosures can be supportable by faithfully representing on a factual basis for example
the strategies plans and risk analyses of the undertaking. To help users decide whether to use
such information the undertaking shall describe the underlying assumptions and methods of
producing the information as well as other factors that provide evidence that it reflects the actual
plans or decisions made by the undertaking.
Understandability
QC 16. Sustainability information is understandable when it is clear and concise. Understandable
information enables any reasonably knowledgeable user to readily comprehend the information
being communicated.
QC 17. For sustainability disclosures to be concise they need to (a) avoid generic “boilerplate”
information which is not specific to the undertaking; (b) avoid unnecessary duplication of
information including information also provided in financial statements; and (c) use clear
language and well-structured sentences and paragraphs. Concise disclosures shall only include
material information. Complementary information presented pursuant to paragraph 113 shall be
provided in a way that avoids obscuring material information.
QC 18. Clarity might be enhanced by distinguishing information about developments in the reporting
period from “standing” information that remains relatively unchanged from one period to the
next. This can be done for example by separately describing features of the undertaking’s
sustainability-related governance and risk management processes that have changed since the
previous reporting period compared to those that remain unchanged.
QC 19. The completeness clarity and comparability of sustainability disclosures all rely on information
being presented as a coherent whole. For sustainability disclosures to be coherent they shall
be presented in a way that explains the context and the connections between the related
information. Coherence also requires the undertaking to provide information in a way that allows
users to relate information about its sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities to
information in the undertaking’s financial statements.
QC 20. If sustainability-related risks and opportunities discussed in the financial statements have
implications for sustainability reporting the undertaking shall include in the sustainability
statement the information necessary for users to assess those implications and present
appropriate links to the financial statements (see chapter 9 of this Standard). The level of
information granularity and technicality shall be aligned with the needs and expectations of
users. Abbreviations shall be avoided and the units of measure shall be defined and disclosed.
28
Appendix C: List of phased-in Disclosure Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 1 and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
ESRS Disclosure Full name of the Phase-in or effective date (including
Requirement Disclosure the first year)
Requirement
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy business The undertaking shall report the information
model and value chain prescribed by ESRS 2 SBM-1 paragraph 40(b)
(breakdown of total revenue by significant
ESRS sector) and 40(c) (list of additional
significant ESRS sectors) starting from the
application date specified in a Commission
Delegated Act to be adopted pursuant to
article 29b(1) third subparagraph point (ii) of
Directive 2013/34/EU.
ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts risks The undertaking may omit the information
and opportunities and prescribed by ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph
their interaction with 48(e) (anticipated financial effects) for the first
strategy and business year of preparation of its sustainability
model statement. The undertaking may comply with
ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48(e) by reporting
only qualitative disclosures for the first 3 years
of preparation of its sustainability statement if
it is impracticable to prepare quantitative
disclosures.
ESRS E1 E1-6 Gross Scopes 1 2 3 and Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
Total GHG balance sheet dates the average number of
emissions 750 employees during the financial year (on a
consolidated basis where applicable) may
omit the datapoints on scope 3 emissions and
total GHG emissions for the first year of
preparation of their sustainability statement.
ESRS E1 E1-9 Anticipated financial The undertaking may omit the information
effects from material prescribed by ESRS E1-9 for the first year of
physical and transition preparation of its sustainability statement. The
risks and potential undertaking may comply with ESRS E1-9 by
climate-related reporting only qualitative disclosures for the
opportunities first 3 years of preparation of its sustainability
statement if it is impracticable to prepare
quantitative disclosures.
ESRS E2 E2-6 Anticipated financial The undertaking may omit the information
effects from prescribed by ESRS E2-6 for the first year of
pollutionrelated impacts preparation of its sustainability statement.
risks and opportunities Except for the information prescribed by
paragraph 40 (b) on the operating and capital
expenditures occurred in the reporting period
in conjunction with major incidents and
deposits the undertaking may comply with
ESRS E2-6 by reporting only qualitative
disclosures for the first 3 years of preparation
of its sustainability statement.
ESRS E3 E3-5 Anticipated The undertaking may omit the information
financial effects prescribed by ESRS E3-5 for the first year of
from water and marine preparation of its sustainability statement.The
resources- undertaking may comply with ESRS E3-5 by
reporting only qualitative disclosures for the
related impacts risks and
opportunities
first 3 years of preparation of its sustainability
statement.
29
ESRS Disclosure Full name of the Phase-in or effective date (including
Requirement Disclosure the first year)
Requirement
ESRS E4 All All disclosure Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
disclos requirements balance sheet dates the average number of
ure 750 employees during the financial year (on a
requirements consolidated basis where applicable) may
omit the information specified in the disclosure
requirements of ESRS E4 for the first 2 years
of preparation of their sustainability statement.
ESRS E4 E4-6 Anticipated financial The undertaking may omit the information
effects from biodiversity prescribed by ESRS E4-6 for the first year of
and
preparation of its sustainability statement.
The undertaking may comply with ESRS E46
ecosystem-related
by reporting only qualitative disclosures for
impacts risks
the first 3 years of preparation of its
and
sustainability statement.
opportunities
ESRS E5 E5-6 Anticipated financial The undertaking may omit the information
effects from resource prescribed by ESRS E5-6 for the first year of
use and circular preparation of its sustainability statement.
The undertaking may comply with ESRS E56
economy-related impacts
by reporting only qualitative disclosures for
risks and
the first 3 years of preparation of its
opportunities
sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 All All disclosure Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
disclosu requirements balance sheet dates the average number of
re requirements 750 employees during the financial year (on a
consolidated basis where applicable) may
omit the information specified in the disclosure
requirements of ESRS S1 for the first year of
preparation of their sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-7 Characteristics of The undertaking may omit reporting for all
nonemployee workers in datapoints in this Disclosure Requirement for
the undertaking’s own the first year of preparation of its sustainability
workforce statement.
ESRS S1 S1-8 Collective The undertaking may omit this Disclosure
bargaining Requirement with regard to its own employees
coverage and in non-EEA countries for the first year of
social dialogue preparation of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-11 Social protection The undertaking may omit the information
prescribed by ESRS S1-11 for the first year of
preparation of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-12 Percentage of The undertaking may omit the information
employees with prescribed by ESRS S1-12 for the first year of
disabilities preparation of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-13 Training skills The undertaking may omit the information
and prescribed by ESRS S1-13 for the first year of
development preparation of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-14 Health and safety The undertaking may omit the data points on
cases of work-related ill-health and on number
of days lost to injuries accidents fatalities and
work-related ill health for the first year of
preparation of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-14 Health and safety The undertaking may omit reporting on
nonemployees for the first year of preparation
of its sustainability statement.
ESRS S1 S1-15 Work-life balance The undertaking may omit the information
prescribed by ESRS S1-15 for the first year of
preparation of its sustainability statement.
30
ESRS Disclosure Full name of the Phase-in or effective date (including
Requirement Disclosure the first year)
Requirement
ESRS S2 All All disclosure Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
disclosu requirements balance sheet dates the average number of
re requirements 750 employees during the financial year (on a
consolidated basis where applicable) may
omit the information specified in the disclosure
requirements of ESRS S2 for the first 2 years
of preparation of their sustainability statement.
ESRS S3 All All disclosure Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
disclosurequirements balance sheet dates the average number of 750
re requirements employees during the financial year (on a
consolidated basis where applicable) may omit
the information specified in the disclosure
requirements of ESRS S3 for the first 2 years of
preparation of their sustainability statement.
ESRS S4 All All disclosure Undertakings or groups not exceeding on their
disclosurequirements balance sheet dates the average number of 750
re requirements employees during the financial year (on a
consolidated basis where applicable) may omit
the information specified in the disclosure
requirements of ESRS S4 for the first 2 years of
preparation of their sustainability statement.
Appendix D: Structure of the ESRS sustainability statement
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 1 and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard with
respect to reporting in four parts as outlined in paragraph 115.
Part of the management report ESRS Title
codification
1. General information ESRS 2 General disclosures including information
provided under the Application
Requirements of topical ESRS listed in
ESRS 2 Appendix C.
2. Environmental information Not applicable
Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy
Regulation)
ESRS E1 Climate change
ESRS E2 Pollution
ESRS E3 Water and marine resources
ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems
ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy
3. Social information ESRS S1 Own workforce
ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain
31
ESRS S3 Affected communities
ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users
4. Governance information ESRS G1 Business conduct
Appendix E: Flowchart for determining disclosures under ESRS
Materiality assessment is the starting point for sustainability reporting under ESRS. This appendix
provides a non-binding illustration of the impact- and financial materiality assessment outlined in chapter
3. IRO-1 in section 4.1 of ESRS 2 includes general disclosure requirements (DR) about the undertaking’s
process to identify impacts risks and opportunities and assess their materiality. SBM-3 of ESRS 2
provides general disclosures requirements on the material impact risks and opportunities resulting from
the undertaking’s materiality assessment. The undertaking can omit all disclosure requirements in a
topical standard if it assessed that the topic in question is not material. In that case it may disclose a
brief explanation of the conclusions of the materiality assessment for that topic but shall disclose a
detailed explanation in the case of ESRS E1 climate change (IRO-2 ESRS 2). ESRS set disclosure
requirements not behavioral requirements. Disclosure requirements in relation to action plans targets
policies scenario analysis and transition plans are proportionate because they are contingent on
the undertaking having these which may depend on the size capacity resources and skills of the
undertaking. Note: The flowchart below does not cover the situation in which the undertaking assesses
a sustainability matter as material but it is not covered by a topical standard, in which case the
undertaking shall make additional entity specific disclosures (ESRS 1 (30
(b)).
32
The undertaking can omit a ll
Perform the impact and financial materiality
disclosure requirements of the
assessment (informed by the table in AR 16 in
Appendix A)
topical standard. But shall in
case of ESRS E1 Cl imate change ,
disclose a detailed e xplanation
of why climate change is not
Is the topic covered by a topical standard material? No material and may d isclose a
brief explanation in the case of
Yes other topical standards (E SRS1
32)
The undertaking shall
For metrics
Has the undertaking
disclose this to be the
case and may report a
established policies,
No timeframe in which it
taken actions or set
aims to have these in
targets for the topic?
place (ESRS1 33)
Is the Disclosure Yes
The undertaking
Requirement (DR)
does not have to
material?
No disclose the DRs or
related Data
Yes Points (DP)
Is the individual
The u ndertaking
Data Point (DP) No does not have to
material?
disclose th e Data
Point (ESRS1 para
Yes
34 (b ))
D isclose the Data Points from the topical
standard in conjunction with the relevant
The undertaking
DRs of ESRS 2 (see ESRS 2 Appendix C ).
shall disclose the
information
required by the DP
(E SRS1 para 34 (a ))
33
Appendix F: Example of structure of ESRS sustainability statement
This appendix complements ESRS 1. It provides a non-binding illustration of the structure of the
sustainability statement outlined in section 8.2 of this Standard. In this illustration the undertaking
has concluded that biodiversity and ecosystems pollution and affected communities are not material.
34
Appendix G: Example of incorporation by reference
This appendix complements ESRS 1. It provides non-binding illustrations of incorporation by reference
of another section of the management report into the sustainability statement as outlined in section
9.1 of this Standard.
Management r eport
➢ Strategy a nd b usiness (E SRS 2 S BM - 1 p aragraph 3 8 )
- Strategy, b usiness m odel, a nd v alue c hain
… ( s eparate e lements o f i nformation c learly i dentified a s a ddressing t he ESRS 2 S BM - 1) …
- …
Sustainability s tatement
1. G eneral i nformation
Disclosures i ncorporated b y r eference
The f ollowing i nformation i s i ncorporated b y r eference t o o ther p arts o f t he m anagement r eport:
- Market p osition, strategy, business m odel, a nd v alue c hain – ( ESRS 2 S BM - 1 p aragraph 3 8 )
- …
2. E nvironmental i nformation
3. S ocial i nformation
4. G overnance i nformation
35