ESRS S2 WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of
stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies
related to value chain workers o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for
engaging with value chain workers about impacts
o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and
channels for value chain workers to raise concerns
o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain
workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing
material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks
and opportunities
Appendix A: Application Requirements
Objective
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 - Interests and views
of stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies
related to value chain workers o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for
engaging with value chain workers about impacts
o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and
channels for value chain workers to raise concerns
o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking Action on material impacts, and approaches
to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value
chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing
material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks
and opportunities
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of
the sustainability statement to understand material impacts on value chain workers
connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its
products or services, as well as through its business relationships, and its related material
risks and opportunities, including:
(a) how the undertaking affects workers in its value chain, in terms of material positive and
negative actual or potential impacts;
1
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent, mitigate or remediate actual
or potential negative impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities, including
those related to its impacts and dependencies on workers in the value chain, and how
the undertaking manages them; and
(d) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of
material risks and opportunities, including those arising from the undertaking’s impacts
and dependencies on workers in the value chain.
2. In order to meet the objective, this Standard requires an explanation of the general approach
the undertaking takes to identify and manage any material actual and potential impacts on
value chain workers in relation to:
(a) working conditions (for example, secure employment, working time, adequate wage,
social dialogue, freedom of association, including the existence of work councils,
collective bargaining, work-life balance and health and safety);
(b) equal treatment and opportunities for all (for example, gender equality and equal pay
for work of equal value, training and skills development, the employment and inclusion
of persons with disabilities, measures against violence and harassment in the
workplace, and diversity);
(c) other work-related rights (for example, child labour, forced labour, adequate housing,
water and sanitation and privacy).
3. This Standard also requires an explanation of how such impacts, as well as the undertaking’s
dependencies on value chain workers, can create material risks or opportunities for the
undertaking. For example, negative impacts on value chain workers may disrupt the
undertaking’s operations (through customers refusing to buy its products or state agencies
impounding its goods) and harm its reputation. Conversely, respect for workers’ rights and
active support programmes (for example through financial literacy initiatives) can bring
business opportunities, such as more reliable supply or widening of the future consumer base.
4. This Standard covers all workers in the undertaking’s upstream and downstream value chain
who are or can be materially impacted by the undertaking, including impacts that are
connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its
products or services, as well as through its business relationships. This includes all workers
who are not included in the scope of “own workforce” (“own workforce” includes employees,
individual contractors, i.e., self- employed workers, and workers provided by third party
undertakings primarily engaged in ‘employment activities’). Own workforce is covered in
ESRS S1 Own workforce. See AR 3 for examples of what is included in the scope of this
Standard.
Interaction with other ESRS
5. This Standard applies when material impacts on and/or material risks and opportunities
related to value chain workers have been identified through the materiality assessment
process laid out in ESRS 2 General disclosures.
6. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements, and ESRS 2,
as well as the ESRS S1, ESRS S3 Affected communities and ESRS S4 Consumers and end-
users.
7. The reporting under this Standard shall be consistent, coherent and where relevant clearly
linked with reporting on the undertaking’s own workforce under ESRS S1, in order to ensure
effective reporting.
2
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
8. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by
ESRS 2 on Strategy (SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities
and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking has an option
to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of
stakeholders
9. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2 paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the
interests, views, and rights of its value chain workers could be materially impacted by the
undertaking, including respect for their human rights, inform its strategy and business model.
Value chain workers are a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
10. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on value chain workers, as identified in
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts,
risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are connected to the undertaking’s strategy
and business models, and (ii) inform and contribute to adapting the undertaking’s
strategy and business model; and
(b) the relationship between on the one hand its material risks and opportunities arising
from impacts and dependencies on value chain workers, and on the other hand its
strategy and business model.
11. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking
shall disclose whether all value chain workers who are likely to be materially impacted by the
undertaking, including impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s own operations and
value chain, including through its products or services , as well as through its business
relationships, are included in the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the
undertaking shall provide the following information:
(a) a brief description of the types of value chain workers who could be materially impacted
by the undertaking, including impacts that connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as
through its business relationships, and specify whether they are:
i. workers working on the undertaking site but who are not part of own workforce,
i.e., who are not self-employed workers or workers provided by third party
undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities (covered through ESRS
S1);
ii. workers working for entities in the undertaking’s upstream value chain (e.g., those
involved in the extraction of metals or minerals or harvesting of commodities, in
refining, manufacturing or other forms of processing);
3
iii. workers working for entities in the undertaking’s downstream value chain (e.g.,
those involved in the activities of logistics or distribution providers, franchisees,
retailers);
iv. workers working in the operations of a joint venture or special purpose vehicle
involving the reporting undertaking;
v. workers who (within the prior categories or additionally) are particularly
vulnerable to negative impacts whether due to their inherent characteristics or to
the particular context, such as trade unionists, migrant workers, home workers,
women or young workers.
(b) any geographies, at country level or other levels, or commodities for which there is a
significant risk of child labour, or of forced labour or compulsory labour, among
workers in the undertaking’s value chain1;
(c) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or
systemic in contexts where the undertaking operates or has sourcing or other business
relationships (e.g., child labour or forced labour in particular commodity supply
chains in specific countries or regions), or (ii) related to individual incidents (e.g., an
industrial accident or an oil spill) or to specific business relationships. This includes
consideration of impacts on value chain workers that may arise from the transition to
greener and climate-neutral operations. Potential impacts include impacts associated
with innovation and restructuring, closure of mines, increased mining of minerals
needed for the transition to a sustainable economy, and solar panel production;
(d) in the case of material positive impacts, a brief description of the activities that result in
the positive impacts (e.g., updated purchasing practices, capacity-building to supply
chain workers), including providing opportunities for the workforce such as job creation
and upskilling in the context of a ‘just transition’, and the types of value chain workers
that are positively affected or could be positively affected; the undertaking may also
disclose whether the positive impacts occur in specific countries or regions; and
(e) any material risks and opportunities for the undertaking arising from impacts and
dependencies on value chain workers.
12. In describing the main types of value chain workers who are or could be negatively affected,
based on the materiality assessment set out in ESRS 2 IRO-1, the undertaking shall disclose
whether and how it has developed an understanding of how workers with particular
characteristics, those working in particular contexts, or those undertaking particular activities
may be at greater risk of harm.
13. The undertaking shall disclose which, if any, of its material risks and opportunities arising
from impacts and dependencies on its value chain workers relate to specific groups of value
chain workers (for example, particular age groups, workers in a particular factory or country)
rather than to all of the value chain workers.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers
14. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts on
value chain workers, as well as associated material risks and opportunities.
15. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to
which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management
1 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from additional indicators related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicators number 12 and
number 13 in Table III of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on
sustainable investments (“Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of child labour” and “Operations and
suppliers at significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour”).
4
and/or remediation of material impacts on value chain workers specifically, as well as
policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to value chain workers.
16. The disclosure required by paragraph 14 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s
policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers
in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability
matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify whether such policies cover specific groups
of value chain workers or all value chain workers.
17. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments2 that are relevant to
value chain workers, including those processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance with
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises113. In its disclosure, it shall focus on those matters that are material in relation to,
as well as the general approach to:
(a) respect for the human rights, including labour rights, of workers;
(b) engagement with value chain workers; and
(c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.
18. The undertaking shall state whether its policies in relation to value chain workers explicitly
address trafficking in human beings114, forced labour or compulsory labour and child labour.
It shall also state whether the undertaking has a supplier code of conduct115.
19. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to value chain
workers are aligned with internationally recognised instruments relevant to value chain
workers, including the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights116. The undertaking shall also disclose the extent to which cases of non-respect of the
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve
value chain workers have been reported in its upstream and downstream value chain and, if
applicable, an indication of the nature of such cases117.
Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about
impacts
20. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with value chain
workers and their representatives about actual and potential impacts on them.
21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and how
the undertaking engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with value chain workers
and their legitimate representatives, or with credible proxies, about material actual and
potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to affect them, and whether and
how perspectives of value chain workers are taken into account in the decision-making
processes of the undertaking.
22. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of value chain workers inform
its decisions or activities aimed at managing the actual and potential impacts on value
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack
of a human rights policy”).
113 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table I of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(’Lack of processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with UN Global Compact principles and OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises’).
2 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #9 in Table III of
5
114 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Lack of processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings”).
115 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #4 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack
of a supplier code of conduct”).
116 This information supports the needs of benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU)
2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to companies without due diligence policies on issues
addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions 1 to 8” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II. 117 This
information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it
is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments; and
benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicators “Number of
benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative divided by all benchmark constituents), as
referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and, where applicable, national law” and
“Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to companies without due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental
International Labour Organisation Conventions 1 to 8” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.
chain workers. This shall include, where relevant, an explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs with value chain workers or their legitimate
representatives directly, or with credible proxies that have insight into their situation;
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency
of the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational
responsibility for ensuring that this engagement happens, and that the results inform
the undertaking’s approach;
(d) where applicable, Global Framework Agreements or for agreements that the
undertaking has with global union federations related to respect of human rights of
workers in the value chain, including their right to bargain collectively, and including an
explanation of how the agreement enables the undertaking to gain insight into those
workers’ perspectives; and
(e) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement
with workers in the value chain, including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes
that result.
23. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the
perspectives of workers that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or marginalised (for
example, women workers, migrant workers, workers with disabilities).
24. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted
a general process to engage with workers in the value chain, it shall disclose this to be the
case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a process in place.
Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for value chain workers to raise concerns
25. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate
in the remediation of negative impacts on value chain workers that the undertaking is
connected with, as well as channels available to value chain workers to raise concerns
and have them addressed.
26. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal
means by which value chain workers can make their concerns and needs known directly to
the undertaking and/or through which the undertaking supports the availability of such
channels (for example, grievance mechanisms ) in the workplace of value chain workers,
how follow up is carried out with these workers regarding the issues raised, and the
effectiveness of these channels.
6
27. The undertaking shall describe:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it
has caused or contributed to a material negative impact on value chain workers,
including whether and how the undertaking assesses that the remedy provided is
effective;
(b) any specific channels it has in place for value chain workers to raise their concerns or
needs directly with the undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these
are established by the undertaking itself and/or whether they are third-party
mechanisms;
(c) the processes through which it supports or requires the availability of such channels in
the workplace of value chain workers; and
(d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the
effectiveness of the channels, including through involvement of stakeholders who are
the intended users.
28. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that value chain workers are
aware of and trust these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs
and have them addressed. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies
in place regarding the protection of individuals that use them against retaliation. If such
information has been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer to
that information.
29. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted
a channel for raising concerns and/or does not support the availability of such a channel in the
workplace of value chain workers, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a
timeframe in which it aims to have such a channel or processes in place.
Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain
workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions
30. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material impacts on value
chain workers, and to manage material risks and pursue material opportunities related
to value chain workers and the effectiveness of those actions.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to enable an understanding
of any actions or initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) prevent, mitigate and remediate the negative material impacts on value chain workers;
and/or
(b) achieve positive material impacts for value chain workers.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing
the material risks and pursuing the material opportunities related to workers in the value
chain.
The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to
manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to value chain workers as per
ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
32. In relation to material impacts, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate material negative impacts on
value chain workers;
(b) whether and how it has taken action to provide or enable remedy in relation to an actual
material impact;
7
(c) any additional actions or initiatives it has in place with the primary purpose of delivering
positive impacts for value chain workers; and
(d) how it tracks and assesses the effectiveness of such actions and initiatives in delivering
intended outcomes for value chain workers.
33. In relation to paragraph 30, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) the processes through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in
response to a particular actual or potential negative impact on value chain workers;
(b) its approach to taking action in relation to specific material negative impacts on value
chain workers, including any action in relation to its own purchasing or other internal
practices, as well as capacity- building or other forms of engagement with entities in the
value chain, or forms of collaborative action with industry peers or other relevant parties;
and
(c) how it ensures that processes to provide or enable remedy in the event of material
negative impacts are available and effective in their implementation and outcomes.
34. In relation to material risks and opportunities, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) what action is planned or underway to mitigate material risks for the undertaking arising
from its impacts and dependencies on value chain workers and how it tracks
effectiveness in practice; and
(b) what action is planned or underway to pursue material opportunities for the undertaking
in relation to value chain workers.
35. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it takes action to avoid causing or contributing
to material negative impacts on value chain workers through its own practices, including,
where relevant, in relation to procurement, sales and data use. This may include disclosing
what approach is taken when tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of material
negative impacts and other business pressures.
36. The undertaking shall also disclose whether severe human rights issues and incidents
connected to its upstream and downstream value chain have been reported and, if applicable,
disclose these3.
37. When disclosing the information required under paragraph 32 (c), the undertaking shall
consider ESRS 2 (see ESRS 2 MDR-T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through
targets) if it evaluates the effectiveness of an action by setting a target.
38. The undertaking shall disclose what resources are allocated to the management of its material
impacts, with information that enables users to gain an understanding of how the material
impacts are managed.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
39. The undertaking shall disclose the time-bound and outcome-oriented targets it may
have set related to:
3 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #14 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Number
of identified cases of severe human rights issues and incidents”).
8
(a) reducing negative impacts on value chain workers; and/or
(b) advancing positive impacts on value chain workers; and/or
(c) managing material risks and opportunities related to value chain workers.
40. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to
which the undertaking is using time-bound and outcome-oriented targets to drive and measure
its progress in addressing material negative impacts, and/or advancing positive impacts on
value chain workers, and/or in managing material risks and opportunities related to value
chain workers.
41. The summarised description of the targets to manage its material impacts, risks and
opportunities related to value chain workers shall contain the information requirements
defined in ESRS 2 MDR-T.
42. The undertaking shall disclose the process for setting the targets, including whether and how
the undertaking engaged directly with workers in the value chain, their legitimate
representatives, or with credible proxies that have insight into their situation in:
(a) setting any such targets;
(b) tracking the undertaking’s performance against them; and
(c) identifying any lessons or improvements as a result of the undertaking’s performance.
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain. It supports the
application of the disclosure requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the
other parts of ESRS S2.
Objective
AR 1. In addition to the issues listed in paragraph 2, the undertaking may also consider disclosing
information about other issues relevant to a material impact for a shorter period of time, for
instance initiatives regarding the health and safety of value chain workers during a
pandemic.
AR 2. The overview of social and human rights matters provided in paragraph 2 is not meant to
imply that all of these issues should be disclosed in each Disclosure Requirement in this
Standard. Rather, it provides a list of matters that the undertaking shall consider in its
materiality assessment (ref. to ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the basis for
sustainability disclosures and ESRS 2 IRO-1) related to value chain workers and, as
appropriate, disclose as material impacts, risks and opportunities within the scope of this
Standard.
AR 3. Examples of workers that fall within the scope of this Standard are:
(a) workers of outsourced services working in the workplace of the undertaking (e.g., third
party catering or security workers);
(b) workers of a supplier contracted by the undertaking who work on the supplier’s
premises using the supplier’s work methods;
(c) workers for a ‘downstream’ entity which purchases goods or services from the
undertaking;
(d) workers of an equipment supplier to the undertaking who, at a workplace controlled by
the undertaking, perform regular maintenance on the supplier’s equipment (e.g.,
9
photocopier) as stipulated in the contract between the equipment supplier and the
undertaking; and
(e) workers deeper in the supply chain who are extracting commodities that are then
processed into components that go in the undertaking’s products.
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 - Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 4. Disclosure Requirement ESRS 2 SBM-2 requires the undertaking to provide an understanding
of whether and how it considers the role that its strategy and business model may play in
creating, exacerbating or mitigating significant material impacts on value chain workers, and
whether and how the business model and strategy are adapted to address such material
impacts.
AR 5. While value chain workers may not be engaging with the undertaking at the level of its strategy
or business model, their views can inform the undertaking’s assessment of its strategy and
business model. The undertaking may disclose the views of the value chain workers and value
chain workers’ representatives.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
AR 6. Impacts on value chain workers can originate in the undertaking’s strategy or business
model in a number of different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the undertaking’s
value proposition (such as providing lowest cost products or services, or high-speed delivery,
in ways that put pressure on labour rights in the upstream and downstream value chains), its
value chain (such as relying on commodities of unclear provenance, without visibility on
impacts on workers), or its cost structure and the revenue model (e.g. shifting inventory risk
to suppliers, with knock-on effects on the labour rights of their workers).
AR 7. Impacts on value chain workers that originate in the strategy or the business model can
also bring material risks to the undertaking. For example, in the context of a pandemic or
other severe health crisis, undertakings that rely on contingent labour with little to no access
to sick care and health benefits may face severe operational and business continuity risks as
workers have no choice but to keep working while sick, further exacerbating the spread of the
disease and causing major supply chain breakdowns. Another example is where selling
goods premised on cheapest prices for customers create operational risks as suppliers under
extreme price pressure may sub-contract production, leading to lower quality, and a longer,
less transparent, and less controllable supply chain. Reputational and business opportunity
risks linked to the exploitation of low-skilled, low-paid workers in sourcing geographies with
minimal protections for them are also increasing with media backlash and consumer
preferences moving to more ethically sourced or sustainable goods.
AR 8. Examples of particular characteristics of value chain workers that may be considered by the
undertaking when responding to paragraph 12 relate to young workers that may be more
susceptible to impacts on their physical and mental development, or women workers in a
context where women are routinely discriminated against in the terms and conditions of work,
or migrant workers in a context where the market for the supply of labour is poorly regulated
and workers are routinely charged recruitment fees. For some workers, the inherent nature of
the activity that they are required to undertake may put them at risk (e.g., workers required to
handle chemicals or operate certain equipment or low paid workers who are on “zero hours”
contracts).
10
AR 9. With regard to paragraph 13, material risks could also arise because of the undertaking’s
dependency on value chain workers where low likelihood but high impact events may trigger
financial effects; for example, where a global pandemic leads to severe health impacts on
workers at all stages of the value chain resulting in major disruptions to production and
distribution. Other examples of risk related to the undertaking’s dependency on value chain
workers include a shortage in skilled workers or political decisions or legislation affecting value
chain workers working for logistics providers. For example, if some workers in the
undertaking’s value chain are at risk of forced labour, and the undertaking is importing
products into countries where the law allows for the confiscation of imported goods that are
suspected of being made with forced labour.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers
AR 10. If the policies are limited to the undertaking’s own workforce and do not cover workers in
upstream and downstream entities and relationships, they shall be disclosed under ESRS
S1 and not in relation to this requirement.
AR 11. If the disclosures under ESRS S1 include information relevant for workers in the value chain,
a reference to this can be made here; disclosures on the remaining elements shall then be
fulfilled under this Disclosure Requirement.
AR 12. The undertaking may disclose explanations of significant changes to the policies adopted
during the reporting year (e.g., new expectations for suppliers, new or additional
approaches to due diligence and remedy).
AR 13. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding value chain workers or be
included in a broader document such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability policy
that has already been disclosed by the undertaking as part of another ESRS. In those cases,
the undertaking shall provide an accurate cross-reference to identify the aspects of the policy
that satisfy the requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.
AR 14. When disclosing the alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, the undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the
International Bill of Rights, which consist of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
the two Covenants that implement it, as well as the International Labour Organisation’s
Declaration on Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work and the core conventions that
underpin it, and may disclose its alignment with these instruments.
AR 15. When disclosing how external-facing policies are embedded, the undertaking may, for
example, consider internal policies of responsible sourcing, and alignment with other policies
relevant to value chain workers, for example, regarding forced labour. With regard to
supplier codes of conduct that the undertaking may have, the summary shall indicate
whether they include provisions addressing the safety of workers, precarious work (for
example, the use of workers on short-term or limited hours contracts, workers employed via
third parties, sub-contracting to third parties or use of informal workers), human trafficking,
the use of forced labour or child labour, and whether such provisions are fully in line with
applicable ILO standards.
AR 16. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to
those individuals, group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because
they are expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s employees,
contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in their implementation
(for example, own workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels
(for example, flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions,
workers’ representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different
audiences understand its implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies
11
and removes potential barriers for dissemination, such as through translation into relevant
languages or the use of graphic depictions.
Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about
impacts
AR 17. When describing which function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement
and/or ultimate accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role
or function or part of a broader role or function, and whether any capacity building activities
have been offered to support the staff to undertake engagement. If it cannot identify such a
position or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure could also be fulfilled
by making reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies.
AR 18. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 22 b) and c), the following illustrations
may be considered:
(a) examples of stages at which engagement occurs are i) determining the approach to
mitigation and ii) evaluation the effectiveness of mitigation;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether
engagement occurs on a regular basis, at certain points in a project or business
process, for example, when a new harvest season begins or a new production line is
opened, as well as whether it occurs in response to legal requirements and/or in
response to stakeholder requests and whether the result of the engagement is being
integrated into the undertaking's decision- making processes; and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant
staff to have certain skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to
relevant staff to undertake engagement.
AR 19. Global Framework Agreements (GFA) serve to establish an ongoing relationship between a
multinational enterprise and a Global Union Federation to ensure that the undertaking
adheres to the same standards in every country in which it operates.
AR 20. To illustrate how the perspectives of value chain workers have informed specific decisions
or activities of the undertaking, the undertaking may provide examples from the current
reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for value chain workers to raise concerns
AR 21. In fulfilling the requirements set out by Disclosure Requirement ESRS S2-3, the undertaking
may be guided by the content of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises focused on remediation and
grievance mechanisms.
AR 22. Channels for raising concerns or needs include grievance mechanisms, hotlines, trade
unions (where workers are unionised), dialogue processes or other means through which
value chain workers or their legitimate representatives can raise concerns about impacts
or explain needs that they would like the undertaking to address. This could include both
channels provided by the undertaking directly and channels provided by the entities where
the value chain workers are working, in addition to any other mechanisms the undertaking
may use to gain insight into the management of impacts on workers, such as compliance
audits. Where the undertaking is relying solely on information about the existence of such
12
channels provided by its business relationships to answer this requirement, it may state
that.
AR 23. To provide greater insight into the information covered in Disclosure Requirement ESRS S2-
3, the undertaking may explain whether and how value chain workers that may be affected
are able to access channels at the level of the undertaking they are employed by, or
contracted to work for, in relation to each material impact.
AR 24. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry
associations and other collaborative initiatives. The undertaking may disclose whether these
are accessible to all workers who may be potentially or actually materially impacted by the
undertaking, or individuals or organisations acting on their behalf or who are otherwise in a
position to be aware of negative impacts.
AR 25. In relation to the protection of individuals that use the mechanisms against the retaliation, the
undertaking may describe whether it treats grievances confidentially and with respect to the
rights of privacy and data protection; and whether the mechanisms allow for workers to use
them anonymously (for example, through representation by a third party).
AR 26. In disclosing whether and how the undertaking knows that value chain workers are aware of
and trust any of these channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable data about
the effectiveness of these channels from the perspective of value chain workers themselves.
Examples of sources of information are surveys of workers that have used such channels
and their levels of satisfaction with the process and outcomes.
AR 27. In describing the effectiveness of channels for value chain workers to raise concerns, the
undertaking may be guided by the following questions, based on the “effectiveness criteria
for non-judicial grievance mechanisms”, as laid out in the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights, in particular Principle 31. The below considerations may be
applied to individual channels or to a collective system of channels:
(a) do the channels hold legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair
conduct and building stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have clear and known procedures, with indicative timeframes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access for stakeholders to sources of information,
advice and expertise?
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to
complainants and, where applicable, to meet any public interest?
(f) do outcomes achieved through the channels accord with internationally recognised
human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous
learning in both improving the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed
solutions, rather than seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain
workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions
AR 28. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved
with them through its value chain, as well as to identify appropriate responses and put them into
practice. Therefore, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
13
(b) its initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and (d) its
aims for continued improvement.
AR 29. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a
material impact or whether the material impact is directly linked to its own operations,
products or services through a business relationship.
AR 30. Given that material negative impacts affecting value chain workers that have occurred during
the reporting period may also be linked to entities or operations outside its direct control, the
undertaking may disclose whether and how it seeks to use its leverage in its business
relationships to manage those impacts. This may include using commercial leverage (for
example, enforcing contractual requirements with business relationships or implementing
incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or
capacity-building on workers’ rights to entities with which the undertaking has a business
relationships) or collaborative leverage with peers or other actors (such as initiatives aimed
at responsible recruitment or ensuring workers receive an adequate wage).
AR 31. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative
as part of its actions to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose
how the initiative, and its own involvement, is aiming to address the material impact
concerned. It may disclose under ESRS S2-5 the relevant targets set by the initiative and
progress towards them.
AR 32. When disclosing whether and how the undertaking considers actual and potential impacts on
value chain workers in decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and
how it seeks to address any negative impacts that may result from termination, the
undertaking may include examples.
AR 33. In disclosing how it tracks the effectiveness of its actions to manage material impacts during
the reporting period, the undertaking may disclose any lessons learned from the previous
and current reporting periods.
AR 34. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing
or verification, court proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments,
measurement systems, stakeholder feedback, grievance mechanisms, external
performance ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 35. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions
taken by the undertaking and the effective management of impacts. For example, to show the
effectiveness of its actions to support its suppliers with improving their working conditions, the
undertaking may disclose survey feedback from the suppliers’ workers showing that working conditions
have improved since the time the undertaking began working with those suppliers. Additional
information that the undertaking may provide includes data showing a decrease in the number of
incidents identified through for instance, independent audits.
AR 36. With regard to initiatives or processes the undertaking has in place that are based on affected
workers’ needs and with regard to progress in the implementation of such initiatives or
processes, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how value chain workers and legitimate
representatives or their credible proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design
and implementation of these programmes or processes; and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for value chain workers
of these initiatives or processes.
AR 37. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to
deliver positive impacts for value chain workers are designed also to support the
achievement of one or more of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For
example, through a commitment to advance UN SDG 8 to “promote sustained, inclusive and
sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all” the
undertaking may be providing capacity-building to smallholders in its supply chain, resulting
14
in increases in their income; or it may be supporting training to increase the proportion of
women able to take delivery jobs in its downstream value chain.
AR 38. When disclosing the intended or achieved positive outcomes of its actions for value chain
workers a distinction is to be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred
(e.g., that x number of workers have received financial literacy training) from evidence of
actual outcomes for workers (e.g., that x workers report that they are able to better manage
their household budgets so as to meet their savings goals).
AR 39. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material
negative impacts, the undertaking may e.g., consider programmes that aim to advance
women workers’ financial literacy that have resulted in more women being promoted as well
as in reports of reduced sexual harassment in the workplace.
AR 40. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or
dependencies on value chain workers, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on value chain workers may include the
reputational or legal exposure where value chain workers are found to be subject to
forced labour or child labour;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on value chain workers may include
disruption of business operations where a pandemic closes significant parts of its
supply chain or distribution network;
(c) opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts on value chain workers may include
market differentiation and greater customer appeal from guaranteeing decent pay and
conditions for non-employee workers; and
(d) business opportunities related to the undertaking’s dependencies on value chain
workers might include the achievement of a future sustainable supply of a commodity
by ensuring smallholder farmers earn enough to persuade future generations to keep
farming that crop.
AR 41. When disclosing whether dependencies turn into risks, the undertaking shall consider external
developments.
AR 42. When disclosing policies, actions and resources and targets related to the management of
material risks and opportunities, in cases where risks and opportunities arise from a
material impact, the undertaking may cross-reference its disclosures on policies, action and
resources and targets in relation to that impact.
AR 43. The undertaking shall consider whether and how its process(es) to manage material risks
related to value chain workers are integrated into its existing risk management process(es).
AR 44. When disclosing the resources allocated to the management of material impacts, the
undertaking may disclose which internal functions are involved in managing the impacts and
what types of action they take to address negative and advance positive impacts.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
AR 45. When disclosing information about targets in accordance with paragraph 39, the undertaking
may disclose:
(a) the intended outcomes to be achieved in the lives of value chain workers, being as
specific as possible;
(b) the stability of the targets over time in terms of definitions and methodologies to enable
comparability over time;
15
(c) the standards or commitments on which the targets are based (for instance codes of
conduct, sourcing policies, global frameworks or industry codes).
AR 46. Targets related to material risks and opportunities may be the same as or distinct from
targets related to material impacts. For example, a target to reach living wages for supply
chain workers could both reduce impacts on those workers and reduce associated risks in
terms of the quality and reliability of supply.
AR 47. The undertaking may also distinguish between short-, medium- and long-term targets
covering the same policy commitment. For example, the undertaking may have a longterm
target to achieve an 80% reduction in health and safety incidents affecting the workers of a
given supplier by 2030 and a near-term target to reduce their overtime hours of delivery
drivers by x% while maintaining their income by 2024.
AR 48. When modifying or replacing a target in the reporting period, the undertaking may explain
the change by cross-referencing it to significant changes in the business model or to
broader changes in the accepted standard or legislation from which the target is derived to
provide contextual information, as per ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific
circumstances.
ESRS S3 AFFECTED COMMUNITIES
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of
stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies
related to affected communities o Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for
engaging with affected communities about impacts
o Disclosure Requirement S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and
channels for affected communities to raise concerns
o Disclosure Requirement S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts on affected
communities, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S3-5 – Targets related to managing
material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks
and opportunitie
Appendix A: Application Requirements
Objective
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of
stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies
related to affected communities o Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for
engaging with affected communities about impacts
o Disclosure Requirement S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and
channels for affected communities to raise concerns
16
o Disclosure Requirement S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts, and
approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities
related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions and
approaches
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S3-5 – Targets related to managing
material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks
and opportunities
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of
the sustainability statement to understand material impacts on affected communities
connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its products
or services, as well as through its business relationships, and its related material risks and
opportunities, including:
(a) how the undertaking affects communities, in areas where impacts are most likely to be
present and severe, in terms of material positive and negative actual or potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent, mitigate or remediate actual
or potential negative impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities related to
its impacts and dependencies on affected communities, and how the undertaking
manages them; and
(d) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of
material risks and opportunities arising from the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies
on affected communities.
2. In order to meet the objective, this Standard requires an explanation of the general approach the
undertaking takes to identify and manage any material actual and potential impacts on affected
communities in relation to:
(a) communities’ economic, social and cultural rights (for example, adequate housing,
adequate food, water and sanitation, land-related and security-related impacts);
(b) communities’ civil and political rights (for example, freedom of expression, freedom of
assembly, impacts on human rights defenders); and
(c) particular rights of indigenous peoples (for example, free, prior and informed consent,
self-determination, cultural rights).
3. This Standard also requires an explanation of how such impacts, as well as the undertaking’s
dependencies on affected communities, can create material risks or opportunities for the
undertaking. For example, negative relationships with affected communities may disrupt the
undertaking’s own operations or harm its reputation, while constructive relationships can bring
business benefits, such as stable and conflict-free operations and a greater ease of recruiting
locally.
Interaction with other ESRS
4. This standard applies when material impacts on and/or material risks and opportunities
related to affected communities have been identified through the materiality assessment
process laid out in ESRS 2 General disclosures.
5. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements, and ESRS 2,
as well as the ESRS S1 Own workforce, ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain and ESRS S4
Consumers and end-users.
17
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
6. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by
ESRS 2 on Strategy (SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities
and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking has an option
to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
7. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2, paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the views,
interests, and rights of affected communities, including respect for their human rights (and
their rights as indigenous peoples, where applicable), inform its strategy and business model.
Affected communities are a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
8. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on affected communities as identified
in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts,
risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are connected to the undertaking’s strategy
and business models, and (ii) inform and contribute to adapting the undertaking’s
strategy and business model; and
(b) the relationship between its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and
dependencies on affected communities and its strategy and business model.
9. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether all
affected communities who are likely to be materially impacted by the undertaking, including
impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including
through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships, are included in
the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the undertaking shall provide the following
information:
(a) a brief description of the types of communities subject to material impacts by its own
operations or through its upstream and downstream value chain, and specify whether
they are:
i. communities living or working around the undertaking’s operating sites, factories,
facilities or other physical operations, or more remote communities affected by
activities at those sites (for example by downstream water pollution);
ii. communities along the undertaking’s value chain (for example, those affected by
the operations of suppliers’ facilities or by the activities of logistics or distribution
providers);
18
iii. communities at one or both endpoints of the value chain (for example, at the point
of extraction of metals or minerals or harvesting of commodities, or communities
around waste or recycling sites);
iv. communities of indigenous peoples.
(b) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or
systemic in contexts where the undertaking operates or has sourcing or other business
relationships (for example, marginalised populations suffering impacts on their health
and quality of life in a highly industrialised area), or (ii) related to individual incidents in
the undertaking’s own operations (e.g., a toxic waste spill affecting a community’s
access to clean drinking water) or in a specific business relationship (e.g., a peaceful
protest by communities against business operations that was met with a violent
response from the undertaking’s security services). This includes consideration of
impacts on affected communities that may arise from the transition to greener and
climate- neutral operations. Potential impacts include impacts associated with
innovation and restructuring, closure of mines, increased mining of minerals needed for
the transition to a sustainable economy and solar panel production;
(c) in the case of material positive impacts, a brief description of the activities that result in
the positive impacts (for example, capacity-building to support more and new forms of
local livelihoods) and the types of communities that are positively affected or could be
positively affected; the undertaking may also disclose whether the positive impacts
occur in specific countries or regions; and
(d) any material risks and opportunities for the business arising from impacts and
dependencies on affected communities.
10. In describing the main types of communities who are or could be negatively affected, based on
the materiality assessment set out in Disclosure Requirement ESRS 2 IRO-1, the undertaking
shall disclose whether and how it has developed an understanding of how affected
communities with particular characteristics or those living in particular contexts, or those
undertaking particular activities may be at greater risk of harm.
11. The undertaking shall disclose which, if any, of its material risks and opportunities arising from
impacts and dependencies on affected communities relate to specific groups of affected
communities rather than to all affected communities.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities
12. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts on
affected communities, as well as associated material risks and opportunities.
13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which
the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or
remediation of material impacts on affected communities specifically, as well as policies that
cover material risks or opportunities related to affected communities.
14. The disclosure required by paragraph 12 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s
policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to affected communities
in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters.
In addition, the undertaking shall specify if such policies cover specific affected communities or
all affected communities.
15. The undertaking shall disclose any particular policy provisions for preventing and addressing
impacts on indigenous peoples.
19
16. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments4 that are relevant to
affected communities, including those processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance with
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In its disclosure
it shall focus on those matters that are material in relation to5, as well as its general approach
to:
(a) respect for the human rights of communities, and indigenous peoples specifically;
(b) engagement with affected communities; and
(c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.
17. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to affected
communities are aligned with internationally recognised standards relevant to communities and
indigenous peoples specifically, including the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights. The undertaking shall also disclose the extent to which cases of
non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
that involve affected communities have been reported in its own operations or in its upstream
and downstream value chain and, if applicable, an indication of the nature of such cases67.
18. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding communities or be included in a
broader document such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability policy that has already
been disclosed by the undertaking as part of another ESRS. In those cases, the undertaking
shall provide an accurate cross-reference to identify the aspects of the policy that satisfy the
requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.
Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for engaging with affected communities
about impacts
19. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with affected
communities and their representatives about actual and potential impacts on them.
20. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and how
the undertaking engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with affected
communities, their legitimate representatives, or with credible proxies, about material actual
and potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to affect them, and whether
and how perspectives of affected communities are taken into account in the decision-making
processes of the undertaking.
4 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #9 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Lack of a human rights policy”).
5 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table I of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of
processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with UN Global Compact principles and OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises”).
6 This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Violations of UN Global Compact principles and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises”); and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU)
7 /1816 as set out by indicator “Number of benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative
divided by all benchmark constituents), as referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and,
where applicable, national law” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.
20
21. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of affected communities
inform its decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts on communities.
This shall include, where relevant, an explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs with affected communities or their legitimate
representatives directly, or with credible proxies that have insight into their situation;
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency of
the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational
responsibility for ensuring this engagement happens, and that the results inform the
undertaking’s approach;
(d) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement with
affected communities, including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes that result.
22. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the
perspectives of affected communities that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or
marginalised, and into the perspective of specific groups within the affected communities, such
as women and girls.
23. Where affected communities are indigenous peoples, the undertaking shall also disclose
how it takes into account and ensures respect of their particular rights in its stakeholder
engagement approach, including their right to free, prior and informed consent with regard
to: (i) their cultural, intellectual, religious and spiritual property; (ii) activities affecting their lands
and territories; and (iii) legislative or administrative measures that affect them. In particular,
where engagement occurs with indigenous peoples, the undertaking shall also disclose whether
and how indigenous peoples have been consulted on the mode and parameters of the
engagement (for example, in designing the agenda, nature, and timeliness of the engagement).
24. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a
general process to engage with affected communities, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may
disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a process in place.
Disclosure Requirement S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for affected communities to raise concerns
25. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate
in the remediation of negative impacts on affected communities that the undertaking is
connected with, as well as channels available to affected communities to raise concerns
and have them addressed.
26. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal means
by which affected communities can make their concerns and needs known directly to the
undertaking, and/or through which the undertaking supports the availability of such channels (for
example, grievance mechanisms) by its business relationships, how follow up
is performed with these communities regarding the issues raised, and the effectiveness of these
channels.
27. The undertaking shall describe:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it
has identified that it has caused or contributed to a material negative impact on affected
communities, including whether and how the undertaking assesses that the remedy
provided is effective;
21
(b) any specific channels it has in place for affected communities to raise their concerns or
needs directly with the undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these
are established by the undertaking itself and/or through participation in third-party
mechanisms;
(c) its processes through which the undertaking supports the availability of such channels by
its business relationships; and
(d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the
effectiveness of the channels, including through involvement of stakeholders who are
the intended users of those channels.
28. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that affected communities are
aware of and trust these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs and
have them addressed. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in place
regarding the protection of individuals that use them against retaliation. If such information has
been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer to that information.
29. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a
channel for raising concerns and/or does not support the availability of such a channel by its
business relationships, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which
it aims to have such a channel or processes in place.
Disclosure Requirement S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts on affected
communities, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions
30. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material impacts on
affected communities, and to manage material risks and pursue material opportunities
related to affected communities and the effectiveness of those actions.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to provide an understanding
of any actions and initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) prevent, mitigate and remediate the negative material impacts on affected communities;
and/or
(b) achieve positive material impacts for affected communities.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing
the material risks and pursuing the material opportunities related to affected communities.
The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to
manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to affected communities as per
ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
32. In relation to material impacts, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate material negative impacts on
affected communities;
(b) whether and how it has taken action to provide or enable remedy in relation to an actual
material impact;
(c) any additional actions or initiatives it has in place with the primary purpose of delivering
positive impacts for affected communities; and
(d) how it tracks and assesses the effectiveness of these actions and intiatives in delivering
intended outcomes for affected communities.
33. In relation to paragraph 29, the undertaking shall describe:
22
(a) the processes through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in
response to a particular actual or potential negative impact on affected communities;
(b) its approach to taking action in relation to specific material negative impacts on
communities, including any action in relation to its own practices regarding land
acquisition, planning and construction, operation or closure practices, as well as whether
wider industry or collaborative action with other relevant parties will be required; and
(c) how it ensures that processes to provide or enable remedy in the event of material
negative impacts are available and effective in their implementation and outcomes.
34. In relation to material risks and opportunities, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) what action is planned or underway to mitigate material risks for the undertaking arising
from its impacts and dependencies on affected communities and how it tracks
effectiveness in practice; and
(b) what action is planned or underway to pursue material opportunities for the undertaking
in relation to affected communities.
35. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it takes action to avoid causing or contributing
to material negative impacts on affected communities through its own practices, including,
where relevant, in relation to planning, land acquisition and exploitation, finance, extraction or
production of raw materials, use of natural resources, and management of environmental
impacts. This may include disclosing what approach is taken when tensions arise between the
prevention or mitigation of material negative impacts and other business pressures.
36. The undertaking shall also disclose whether severe human rights issues and incidents
connected to affected communities have been reported and, if applicable, disclose these8.
37. When disclosing the information required under paragraph 31 (c), the undertaking shall consider
ESRS 2 MDR-T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets if it evaluates the
effectiveness of an action by setting a target.
38. The undertaking shall disclose what resources are allocated to the management of its material
impacts, with information that enables users to gain an understanding of how the material
impacts are managed.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S3-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
39. The undertaking shall disclose the time-bound and outcome-oriented targets it may have
set related to:
(a) reducing negative impacts on affected communities; and/or
(b) advancing positive impacts on affected communities; and/or
(c) managing material risks and opportunities related to affected communities.
40. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which
the undertaking is using time-bound and outcome-oriented targets to drive and measure its
progress in addressing material negative impacts, and/or advancing positive impacts on affected
8 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #14 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Number
of identified cases of severe human rights issues and incidents”).
23
communities, and/or in managing material risks and opportunities related to affected
communities.
41. The summarised description of the targets to manage its material impacts, risks and
opportunities related to affected communities shall contain the information requirements
defined in ESRS 2 MDR-T.
42. The undertaking shall disclose the process for setting the targets, including whether and how
the undertaking engaged directly with affected communities, their legitimate representatives, or
with credible proxies that have insight into their situation in:
(a) setting any such targets;
(b) tracking the undertaking’s performance against them; and
(c) identifying, any, lessons or improvements as a result of the undertaking’s performance.
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS S3 Affected communities. It supports the application of
the disclosure requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of
the standard.
Objective
AR 1. The overview of social and human rights matters provided in paragraph 2 is not meant to imply
that all of these issues should be disclosed in each Disclosure Requirement in this Standard.
Rather, it provides a list of matters that the undertaking shall consider in its materiality
assessment (ref. to ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the basis for sustainability
disclosures and ESRS 2 IRO-1) related to affected communities and, as appropriate,
disclose as material impacts, risks and opportunities within the scope of this Standard.
AR 2. In addition to the issues listed in paragraph 2, the undertaking may also consider disclosing
information about other issues relevant to a material impact for a shorter period of time, for
instance initiatives regarding the impacts on communities related to the undertaking’s
operations due to extreme and sudden weather conditions.
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 3. Disclosure Requirement ESRS 2 SBM-2 requires the undertaking to provide an understanding
of if and how it considers the role that its strategy and business model may play in creating,
exacerbating or mitigating significant material impacts on affected communities, and
whether and how the business model and strategy are adapted to address such material
impacts.
AR 4. While affected communities may not be engaging with the undertaking at the level of its
strategy or business model, their views can inform the undertaking’s assessment of its
strategy and business model. The undertaking may disclose the views of affected
communities and affected communities' representatives.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
24
AR 5. Impacts on affected communities can originate in the undertaking’s strategy or business
model in a number of different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the undertaking’s
value proposition (such as, construction or commencement of projects with timelines that do
not allow sufficient time for consultation with groups affected by the projects), its value chain
(for example, land-use in countries in which ownership is often contested or records are
unreliable or in which land-users such as indigenous peoples are unrecognised), or its cost
structure and the revenue model (such as, aggressive strategies to minimise taxation,
particularly with respect to operations in developing countries).
AR 6. Impacts on affected communities that originate in the strategy or business model can also
bring material risks to the undertaking. For example, where the undertaking’s strategy involves
moving into higher risk geographies in pursuit of certain commodities, and if affected
communities resist its presence or object to its local practices, this may create extensive and
costly delays, and affect the undertaking’s ability to secure future land concessions or permits.
Similarly, if the undertaking’s business model relies on intensive water extraction at its plants,
to the extent that it affects access to water for communities’ consumption, hygiene and
livelihoods, this may result in reputationally-damaging boycotts, complaints and lawsuits.
AR 7. Examples of particular characteristics of affected communities that may be considered by
the undertaking when responding to paragraph 10 may be an affected community that is
physically or economically isolated and is particularly susceptible to introduced diseases or
has limited access to social services and therefore relies on infrastructure set up by the
undertaking. It may be because where land worked by women is purchased by the undertaking
and payments go to male heads of households, women become further disenfranchised in the
community. It may also be because the community is indigenous, and its members seek to
exercise cultural or economic rights to the land owned or used by the undertaking – or by one
of the entities with which it has a business relationship – in a context where their rights are not
protected by the state. In addition, the undertaking shall consider whether different
characteristics overlap. For example, characteristics such as ethnicity, socioeconomic status,
migrant status and gender may create overlapping risks of harm for certain affected
communities, or for distinct parts of those affected communities, since affected communities
are often heterogeneous in nature.
AR 8. With regard to paragraph 11, material risks could also arise because of the undertaking’s
dependency on affected communities where low likelihood but high impact events may
trigger financial effects; for example, where a natural disaster leads to a catastrophic
industrial accident involving the undertaking’s operations, resulting in severe harm to affected
communities.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities
AR 9. The description shall include the key information necessary to ensure a faithful representation of
the policies in relation to affected communities and, therefore, the undertaking shall consider
explanations of significant changes to the policies adopted during the reporting year (for
example, new or additional approaches to engagement, due diligence and remedy).
AR 10. When disclosing the alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, the undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the
International Bill of Rights, which consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
the two Covenants that implement it, as well as the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
Peoples, the International Labour Organisation’s Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal
Peoples (ILO No. 169) and the core conventions that underpin it, and
may disclose its alignment with these instruments.
AR 11. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to those
individuals, group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because they are
25
expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s employees, contractors and
suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in their implementation (for example, own
workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels (for example, flyers,
newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions, workers’
representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different audiences
understand its implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies and removes
potential barriers for dissemination, such as through translation into relevant languages or the
use of graphic depictions.
AR 12. When disclosing severe human rights issues and incidents connected to affected communities,
the undertaking shall consider any legal disputes related to land rights and to the free, prior
and informed consent of indigenous peoples.
Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for engaging with affected communities
about impacts
AR 13. Explanations of how the undertaking takes into account and ensures respect of the right of
indigenous peoples to free, prior and informed consent may include information about
processes to consult with indigenous peoples to obtain such consent. The undertaking shall
consider how the consultation includes a good faith negotiation with affected indigenous
peoples to obtain their free, prior and informed consent where the undertaking affects the
lands, territories or resources that indigenous peoples customarily own, occupy or otherwise
use; or relocates them from land or territories subject to traditional ownership or under
customary use or occupation; or affects or exploits their cultural, intellectual, religious and
spiritual property.
AR 14. When describing which function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement
and/or ultimate accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role or
function or part of a broader role or function, and whether any capacity building activities have
been offered to support the staff to undertake engagement. If it cannot identify such a position
or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure could also be fulfilled by making
reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies.
AR 15. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 20 b) and c), the following illustrations
may be considered:
(a) examples of stages at which engagement occurs are i) determining the approach to
mitigation and ii) evaluating the effectiveness of mitigation;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether
engagement occurs on a regular basis, at certain points in a project or business process;
and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant
staff to have certain skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to relevant
staff to undertake engagement. In the case of material impacts, risks and opportunities
related to indigenous peoples, this includes training on indigenous people’s rights,
including on free, prior and informed consent.
AR 16. To illustrate how the perspectives of communities have informed specific decisions or activities
of the undertaking, the undertaking may provide examples from the current reporting period.
26
Disclosure Requirement S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for affected communities to raise concerns
AR 17. In fulfilling the requirements set out by Disclosure Requirement ESRS S3-3, the undertaking
may be guided by the content of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises focused on remediation and
grievance mechanisms.
AR 18. Channels for raising concerns or needs, include grievance mechanisms, hotlines, dialogue
processes or other means through which affected communities or their legitimate
representatives can raise concerns about impacts or explain needs that they would like the
undertaking to address. This could include channels provided by the undertaking directly, in
addition to any other mechanisms the undertaking may use to gain insight into the
management of impacts on communities, such as compliance audits. Where the undertaking
is relying solely on information about the existence of such channels provided by its business
relationships to answer this requirement, it may state that.
AR 19. To provide greater insight into the information covered in ESRS S3-3, the undertaking may
explain whether and how communities that may be affected are able to access channels at the
level of the undertaking they are affected by, in relation to each material impact. Relevant
insights include information on whether affected communities can access channels in a
language they understand, and whether they have been consulted in the design of such
channels.
AR 20. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry
associations and other collaborative initiatives. The undertaking may disclose whether these
are accessible to all affected communities who may be potentially or actually materially
impacted by the undertaking, or individuals or organisations acting on their behalf or who are
otherwise in a position to be aware of negative impacts.
AR 21. In relation to the protection of individuals that use the mechanisms against retaliation, the
undertaking may describe whether it treats grievances confidentially and with respect to the
rights of privacy and data protection; and whether to the mechanisms can be used
anonymously (for example, through representation by a third party).
AR 22. When disclosing processes related to providing and enabling remedy for indigenous peoples,
relevant information includes whether and how the undertaking has considered their customs,
traditions, rules and legal systems.
AR 23. In disclosing whether and how the undertaking knows that affected communities are aware
of and trust any of these channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable data
about the effectiveness of these channels from the perspective of affected communities
themselves. Examples of sources of information are surveys of community members that have
used such channels and their levels of satisfaction with the process and outcomes.
AR 24. In describing the effectiveness of channels for affected communities to raise concerns, the
undertaking may be guided by the following questions, based on the “effectiveness criteria for
non- judicial grievance mechanisms”, as laid out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights, in particular Principle 31. The below considerations may be applied on an
individual channel basis or for the collective system of channels:
(a) do the channels hold legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair
conduct and building stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have clear and known procedures, set timeframes and clarity on the
processes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access to sources of information, advice and
expertise?
27
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to
complainants and, where applicable, to meet any public interest at stake?
(f) do the outcomes achieved through the channels accord with internationally recognised
human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous
learning in both improving the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed
solutions, rather than seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
Disclosure Requirement S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts on affected
communities, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions
AR 25. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved with
them through its value chain, as well as to identify appropriate responses and put them into
practice. Therefore, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
(b) its social investment or other development programmes aimed at contributing to
additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and
(d) its aims for continued improvement.
AR 26. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a
material impact, or whether the material impact is directly linked to its own operations, products
or services through a business relationship.
AR 27. Given that material negative impacts affecting communities that have occurred during the
reporting period may also be linked to entities or operations outside its direct control, the
undertaking may disclose whether and how it seeks to use its leverage in its business
relationships to manage those impacts. This may include using commercial leverage (for
example, enforcing contractual requirements with business relationships or implementing
incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or
capacity-building on the rights of indigenous peoples to entities with which the undertaking has
a business relationships) or collaborative leverage with peers or other actors (such as
initiatives aimed at minimising security-related impacts on communities or participating in
company-community partnerships).
AR 28. Impacts on communities may stem from environmental matters which are disclosed by the
undertaking under the ESRS E1 to E5. Examples include:
(a) ESRS E1 Climate Change: The implementation of climate change mitigation plans
may require the undertaking to invest in renewable energy projects that may affect the
lands, territories and natural resources of indigenous peoples. If the undertaking
does not consult with the affected indigenous peoples , it could negatively impact the
affected communities’ right to free, prior and informed consent;
(b) ESRS E2 Pollution: The undertaking may negatively impact affected communities by
failing to protect them from pollution from a particular production facility that causes
them health-related issues;
(c) ESRS E3 Water and marine sources: The undertaking may negatively impact the access
to clean drinking water of communities when withdrawing water in water stressed areas;
28
(d) ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems: The undertaking may negatively affect the
livelihood of local farmers through operations that contaminate soil. Additional examples
include the sealing of land through building new infrastructure, which can eradicate plant
species that are critical for, for example, local biodiversity or to filter water for
communities; or the introduction of invasive species (whether plants or animals) that
can impact ecosystems and cause subsequent harm;
(e) ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy: The undertaking may negatively impact
the lives of communities by affecting their health through the mismanagement of
hazardous waste.
Where the connection between environmental impacts and local communities is addressed in
the disclosures within the Disclosure Requirements ESRS E1-E5, the undertaking may cross-
reference to those and clearly identify such disclosures.
AR 29. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative as
part of its actions to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose how the
initiative, and its own involvement, is aiming to address the material impact concerned. It may
disclose under ESRS S3-5 the relevant targets set by the initiative and progress towards them.
AR 30. When disclosing whether and how the undertaking considers actual and potential impacts on
affected communities in decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and
how it seeks to address any negative impacts that may result from termination, the undertaking
may include examples.
AR 31. In disclosing how it tracks the effectiveness of actions to manage material impacts during the
reporting period, the undertaking may disclose any lessons learned from the previous and
current reporting periods.
AR 32. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing
or verification, court proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments,
measurement systems, stakeholder feedback, grievance mechanisms, external performance
ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 33. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions
taken by an undertaking and the effective management of impacts.
AR 34. With regard to initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for
affected communities that are based on affected communities’ needs, and with regard to
progress in the implementation of such initiatives or processes, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how affected communities and legitimate
representatives or their credible proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design
and implementation of these investments or programmes; and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for affected
communities of these investments or programmes.
(c) an explanation of the approximate scope of affected communities covered by the
described social investment or development programmes, and, where applicable, the
rationale for why selected communities were chosen for a given social investment or
development programme's implementation.
AR 35. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to
deliver positive impacts for affected communities are designed also to support the
achievement of one or more of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example,
through a commitment to advance UN SDG 5 to “achieve gender equality and empower all
women and girls” the undertaking may be taking thoughtful measures to include women in the
consultation process with an affected community to meet standards of effective stakeholder
engagement, which can help empower the women in the process itself, but potentially also in
their daily lives.
AR 36. When disclosing the intended or achieved positive outcomes of its actions for affected
communities a distinction is to be made between evidence of certain activities having
occurred (for example, that x number of women community members have been provided with
29
training on how to become local suppliers to the undertaking) from evidence of actual
outcomes for affected communities (for example, that x women community members have set
up small businesses and have had their contracts with the undertaking renewed year-onyear).
AR 37. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material negative
impacts, the undertaking may for example consider programmes that aim to improve local
infrastructure surrounding an undertaking’s operations, such as improvements in roads leading
to a reduction in the number of severe traffic accidents involving community members.
AR 38. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or
dependencies on affected communities, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on affected communities may include the
reputational or legal exposure, as well as operational risks, where affected communities
protest against resettlements or the loss of access to lands, leading to costly delays,
boycotts, or lawsuits;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on affected communities may include
disruption of business operations where indigenous peoples decide to withdraw their
consent to a project on their lands, forcing the undertaking to significantly modify or
abandon the project;
(c) business opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts on affected communities
may include more easily financing projects and being a partner of choice for
communities, governments and other businesses; and
(d) opportunities related to the undertaking’s dependencies on affected communities may
include the development of positive relationships between the undertaking and
indigenous peoples that enable existing projects to expand with strong support.
AR 39. In disclosing the information in AR 41, the undertaking may consider explanations of risks and
opportunities stemming from environmental impacts or dependencies (please refer to AR 31
for further details), including related human rights (or social) impacts. Examples include
reputational risks stemming from the impact on the health of communities of unmanaged
polluting discharges; or the financial effects of protests that may disrupt or interrupt an
undertaking’s activities, for example, in response to operations in water stressed areas that
may impact the lives of affected communities.
AR 40. When disclosing whether dependencies turn into risks, the undertaking shall consider external
developments.
AR 41. When disclosing policies, action and resources and targets related to the management of
material risks and opportunities, in cases where risks and opportunities arise from a material
impact, the undertaking may cross-reference its disclosures on policies, actions and resources
and targets in relation to that impact.
AR 42. The undertaking shall consider whether and how its processes to manage material risks related
to affected communities are integrated into its existing risk management processes.
AR 43. When disclosing the resources allocated to the management of material impacts, the
undertaking may disclose which internal functions are involved in managing the impacts and
what types of action they take to address negative and advance positive impacts.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S3-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
AR 44. When disclosing information about targets in accordance with paragraph 38, the undertaking
may disclose:
30
(a) the intended outcomes to be achieved in the lives of affected communities, being as
specific as possible;
(b) the stability of the targets over time in terms of definitions and methodologies to enable
comparability over time;
(c) the standards or commitments which the targets are based on (for instance codes of
conduct, sourcing policies, global frameworks or industry codes).
AR 45. Targets related to material risks and opportunities may be the same as or distinct from targets
related to material impacts. For example, a target to fully restore livelihoods of affected
communities following resettlement could both reduce impacts on those communities and
reduce associated risks such as community protests.
AR 46. The undertaking may also distinguish between short-, medium- and long-term targets covering
the same policy commitment. For example, the undertaking may have as a main objective to
employ community members at a local mining site, with the long-term goal of staffing 100%
locally by 2025, and with the short-term objective of adding x percent of local employees every
year up and until 2025.
AR 47. When modifying or replacing a target in the reporting period, the undertaking may explain the
change by linking it to significant changes in the business model or to broader changes in the
accepted standard or legislation from which the target is derived to provide contextual
information as per ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances.
ESRS S4 CONSUMERS AND END-USERS
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of
stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business mode
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies
related to consumers and end-users o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for
engaging with consumers and endusers about impacts
o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and
channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns
o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers
and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those
actions
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material
negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and
opportunities
Appendix A: Application Requirements
Objective
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of
stakeholders
o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
31
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies
related to consumers and end-users o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for
engaging with consumers and endusers about impacts o Disclosure Requirement S4-
3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-
users to raise concerns
o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts, and approaches
to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to
consumers and end-users and effectiveness of those actions and approaches
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material
negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and
opportunities
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of
the sustainability statement to understand material impacts on consumers and endusers
connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its
products or services, as well as through its business relationships, and its related material
risks and opportunities, including:
(a) how the undertaking affects the consumers and/or end-users of its products and/or
services (referred to in this Standard as “consumers and end-users”), in terms of material
positive and negative actual or potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent, mitigate or remediate actual
or potential negative impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities related to
its impacts and dependencies on consumers and end-users, and how the undertaking
manages such risks and opportunities; and
(d) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of
material risks and opportunities arising from the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies
on consumers and/or end-users.
2. In order to meet the objective, this Standard requires an explanation of the general approach
the undertaking takes to identify and manage any material actual and potential impacts on the
consumers and/or end-users related to its products and/or services in relation to:
(a) information-related impacts on consumers and/or end-users (for example, privacy,
freedom of expression and access to (quality) information;
(b) personal safety of consumers and/or end-users (for example, health and safety, security
of a person and protection of children);
(c) social inclusion of consumers and/or end-users (for example, non-discrimination,
access to products and services and responsible marketing practices).
3. This Standard also requires an explanation of how such impacts, as well as the undertaking’s
dependencies on consumers and/or end-users, can create material risks or opportunities
for the undertaking. For example, negative impacts on the reputation of the undertaking’s
products and/or services can be detrimental to its business performance, while trust in products
and/or services can bring business benefits, such as increased sales or widening of the future
consumer base.
4. The unlawful use or misuse of the undertaking’s products and services by consumers and
end-users fall outside the scope of this standard.
32
Interaction with other ESRS
5. This standard applies when material impacts on and/or material risks and opportunities
related to consumers and/or end-users have been identified through the materiality
assessment process laid out in ESRS 2 General disclosures.
6. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements, and ESRS 2,
as well as ESRS S1 Own workforce, ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain and ESRS S3
Affected communities.
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
7. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by
ESRS 2 on Strategy (SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities
and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking has an option
to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
8. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2, paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the
interests, views and rights of its consumers and/or end-users, including respect for their
human rights, inform its strategy and business model. Consumers and/or end-users are a key
group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
9. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on consumers and/or end-users as
identified in Disclosure Requirements ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to
identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are
connected to the undertaking’s strategy and business model, and (ii) inform and
contribute to adapting the undertaking’s strategy and business model, and
(b) the relationship between its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and
dependencies on consumers and/or end-users and its strategy and business model.
10. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether all
consumers and/or end-users who are likely to be materially impacted by the undertaking,
including impacts connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including
through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships, are included
in the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose the
following information:
33
(a) a brief description of the types of consumers and/or end-users subject to material impacts
by its own operations or through its value chain, and specify whether they are:
i. consumers and/or end-users of products that are inherently harmful to people
and/or increase risks for chronic disease;
ii. consumers and/or end-users of services that potentially negatively impact their
rights to privacy, to have their personal data protected, to freedom of expression
and to non- discrimination;
iii. consumers and/or end-users who are dependent on accurate and accessible
product- or service- related information, such as manuals and product labels, to
avoid potentially damaging use of a product or service;
iv. consumers and/or end-users who are particularly vulnerable to health or privacy
impacts or impacts from marketing and sales strategies, such as children or
financially vulnerable individuals;
(b) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or
systemic in contexts where the undertaking sells or provides its products or services (for
example, state surveillance that affects the privacy of service users), or (ii) related to
individual incidents (for example, a defect linked to a particular product) or to specific
business relationships (for example, a business partner uses marketing that
inappropriately targets young consumers);
(c) in the case of material positive impacts, a brief description of the activities that result in
the positive impacts (for example, product design that improves its accessibility for
persons with disabilities) and the types of consumers and/or end-users that are positively
affected or could be positively affected; the undertaking may also disclose whether the
positive impacts occur in specific countries or regions; and
(d) any material risks and opportunities for the business arising from impacts and
dependencies on consumers and/or end-users.
11. In describing the main types of consumers and/or end-users who are or could be negatively
affected, based on the materiality assessment set out in ESRS 2 IRO-1, the undertaking shall
disclose whether and how it has developed an understanding of how consumers and/or end-
users with particular characteristics, or those using particular products or services, may be at
greater risk of harm.
12. The undertaking shall disclose which, if any, of its material risks and opportunities arising from
impacts and dependencies on consumers and/or end-users, relate to specific groups of
consumers and/or end-users (for example, particular age groups) rather than to all consumers
and/or end-users.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users
13. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts of
its products and/or services on consumers and end-users, as well as associated
material risks and opportunities.
14. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to
which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management
and/or remediation of material impacts on consumers and/or end-users specifically, as well
as policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users.
15. The disclosure required by paragraph 13 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s
policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to consumers and/or
end-users in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material
34
sustainability matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify if such policies cover specific
groups or all consumers and/or end-users.
16. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments9 that are relevant to
consumers and/or end-users, including those processes and mechanisms to monitor
compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises. In its disclosure it shall focus on those matters that are material, as well as the
general approach in relation to10:
(a) respect for the human rights of consumers and/or end-users;
(b) engagement with consumers and/or end-users; and
(c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.
17. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to consumers and/or
end-users are aligned with internationally recognised instruments relevant to consumers
and/or end-users, including United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights. The undertaking shall also disclose the extent to which cases of non respect of the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve consumers
and/or end-users have been reported in its downstream value chain and, if applicable, an
indication of the nature of such cases11.
Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users
about impacts
18. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with consumers and
end-users and their representatives about actual and potential impacts on them.
19. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and
how the undertaking engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with consumers
and/or end-users, their legitimate representatives, or with credible proxies, about material
actual and potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to affect them, and
whether and how perspectives of consumers and/or end-users are taken into account in the
decision-making processes of the undertaking.
20. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of consumers and/or
endusers inform its decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts on
consumers and/or end-users. This shall include, where relevant, an explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs with affected consumers and/or end-users or their
legitimate representatives directly, or with credible proxies that have insight into their
situation;
9 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #9 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack
of a human rights policy”).
10 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table I of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments.
11 This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Violations of UN Global Compact principles and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises”); and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU)
2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Number of benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative
divided by all benchmark constituents), as referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and,
where applicable, national law” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.
35
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency
of the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational
responsibility for ensuring this engagement happens and that the results inform the
undertaking’s approach; and
(d) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement
with consumers and/or end-users, and, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes
that result from such engagement.
21. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the
perspectives of consumers and/or end-users that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts
and/or marginalised (for example, people with disabilities, children, etc.).
22. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted
a general process to engage with consumers and/or end-users, it shall disclose this to be the
case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a process in place.
Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for consumers and end-users to raise concerns
23. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate
in the remediation of negative impacts on consumers and end-users that the
undertaking is connected with, as well as channels available to consumers and end-
users to raise concerns and have them addressed.
24. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal
means by which consumers and/or end-users can make their concerns and needs known
directly to the undertaking, and/or through which the undertaking supports the availability of
such channels (for example, grievance mechanisms) by its business relationships, how follow
up is performed with these consumers and/or end-users regarding the issues raised, and the
effectiveness of these channels.
25. The undertaking shall describe:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it
has identified that it has caused or contributed to a material negative impact on
consumers and/or end-users, including whether and how the undertaking assesses
that the remedy provided is effective;
(b) any specific channels it has in place for consumers and/or end-users to raise their
concerns or needs directly with the undertaking and have them addressed, including
whether these are established by the undertaking itself and/or through participation in
third-party mechanisms;
(c) the processes through which the undertaking supports or requires the availability of such
channels by its business relationships; and
(d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the
effectiveness of the channels, including through involvement of stakeholders who are
the intended users.
26. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that consumers and/or endusers
are aware of and trust these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs
and have them addressed. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in
place to protect individuals from retaliation when they use such structures or processes. If such
information has been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer to
that information.
36
27. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted
a channel for raising concerns and/or does not support the availability of mechanisms by its
business relationships, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which
it aims to have such a channel or processes in place.
Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and
end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions
28. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material impacts on
consumers and end-users, and to manage material risks and pursue material
opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions.
29. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to provide an understanding
of any actions and initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) prevent, mitigate and remediate the negative material impacts on consumers and/or end-
users, and/or
(b) achieve positive material impacts for consumers and/or end-users.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing
the material risks and pursuing the material opportunities related to consumers and/or end-
users.
30. The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to
manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to consumers and end-users as
per ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
31. In relation to material impacts, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent, mitigate or remediate material negative
impacts on consumers and/or end-users;
(b) whether and how it has taken action to provide or enable remedy in relation to an actual
material impact;
(c) any additional actions or initiatives it has in place with the primary purpose of positively
contributing to improved social outcomes for consumers and/or end-users; and
(d) how it tracks and assesses the effectiveness of these actions and initiatives in delivering
intended outcomes for consumers and/or end-users.
32. In relation to paragraph 28, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) the processes through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in
response to a particular actual or potential negative impact on consumers and/or end-
users;
(b) its approaches to taking action in relation to specific material negative impacts on
consumers and/or end-users, including any action in relation to its own practices
regarding product design, marketing or sales, as well as whether wider industry or
collaborative action with other relevant parties will be required; and
(c) how it ensures that processes to provide or enable remedy in the event of material
negative impacts are available and effective in their implementation and outcomes.
33. In relation to material risks and opportunities, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) what action is planned or underway to mitigate material risks for the undertaking arising
from its impacts and dependencies on consumers and/or end-users and how it tracks
effectiveness in practice; and
37
(b) what action is planned or underway to pursue material opportunities for the undertaking
in relation to consumers and/or end-users.
34. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it takes action to avoid causing or contributing
to material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users through its own practices,
including, where relevant, in relation to marketing, sales and data use. This may include
disclosing what approach is taken when tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of
material negative impacts and other business pressures.
35. When preparing this disclosure, the undertaking shall consider whether severe human rights
issues and incidents connected to its consumers and/or end-users have been reported and,
if applicable, disclose these12.
36. Where the undertaking evaluates the effectiveness of an action by setting a target, in disclosing
the information required under paragraph 32 (c), the undertaking shall consider ESRS 2 MDR-
T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets.
37. The undertaking shall disclose what resources are allocated to the management of its material
impacts with information that enables users to gain an understanding of how the material
impacts are managed.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
38. The undertaking shall disclose the time-bound and outcome-oriented targets it may
have set related to:
(a) reducing negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users; and/or
(b) advancing positive impacts on consumers and/or end-users; and/or
(c) managing material risks and opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users.
39. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to
which the undertaking is using time-bound and outcome-oriented targets to drive and measure
progress in addressing material negative impacts, and/or advancing positive impacts on
consumers and/or end-users, and/or in managing material risks and opportunities related to
consumers and/or end-users .
40. The summarised description of the targets to manage its material impacts, risks and
opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users shall contain the information
requirements defined in ESRS 2 MDR-T.
41. The undertaking shall disclose the process for setting the targets, including whether and how
the undertaking engaged directly with consumers and/or end-users, their legitimate
representatives, or with credible proxies that have insight into their situation in:
(a) setting any such targets;
(b) tracking the undertaking’s performance against them; and
(c) identifying, if any, lessons or improvements as a result of the undertaking’s performance.
12 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #14 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Number of identified cases of severe human rights issues and incidents”).
38
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users. It supports the
application of the requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts
of the standard.
Objective
AR 1. The undertaking may highlight special issues relevant to a material impact for a shorter
period of time, for instance initiatives regarding the health and safety of consumers and/or
end-users in relation to contamination of a product or severe breach of privacy due to a
massive data leak.
AR 2. The overview of social and human rights matters provided in paragraph 2 is not meant to
imply that all of these issues should be disclosed in each Disclosure Requirement in this
Standard. Rather, it provides a list of matters that the undertaking shall consider in its
materiality assessment (ref. to ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the basis for
sustainability disclosures and ESRS 2 IRO-1) related to consumers and/or end-users and,
subsequently, disclose as material impacts, risks and opportunities within the scope of this
Standard.
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 3. ESRS 2 SBM-2 requires the undertaking to provide an understanding of if and how it
considers whether its strategy and business model play a role in creating, exacerbating or
(conversely) mitigating significant material impacts on consumers and/or end-users, and
whether and how the business model and strategy are adapted to address such material
impacts.
AR 4. While consumers and/or end-users may not be engaging with the undertaking at the level
of its strategy or business model, their views can inform the undertaking’s assessment of its
strategy and business model. The undertaking may disclose the views of the (actual or
potential) materially affected consumers and/or end-users’ legitimate representatives or
those of credible proxies that have insight into their situation.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and
opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
AR 5. Impacts on consumers and/or end-users can originate in the undertaking’s business model
or strategy in a number of different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the
undertaking’s value proposition (for example, providing online platforms with potential for
online and offline harm), its value chain (for example, speed in developing products or
services, or delivering projects, with risks to health and safety), or its cost structure and the
revenue model (for example, sales-maximising incentives that put consumers at risk).
AR 6. Impacts on consumers and/or end-users that originate in the strategy or business model
can also bring material risks to the undertaking. For example, if the undertaking’s business
model is premised on incentivising its sales force to sell high volumes of a product or service
(for example, credit cards or pain medicine) at speed, and this results in large- scale harm
to consumers, the undertaking may face lawsuits and reputational damage affecting its future
business and credibility.
39
AR 7. Examples of particular characteristics of consumers and/or end-users that may be
considered by the undertaking when responding to paragraph 11 include young consumers
and/or end-users who may be more susceptible to impacts on their physical and mental
development, or who lack financial literacy and may be more susceptible to exploitative sales
or marketing practices. They may also include women in a context where women are
routinely discriminated against in their access to particular services or in the marketing of
particular products.
AR 8. With regard to paragraph 12, the risks could arise because of the undertaking’s dependency
on consumers and/or end-users where low likelihood but high impact events may trigger
financial effects, for example, where a global pandemic leads to severe impacts on certain
consumers’ livelihoods resulting in major changes in patterns of consumption.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users
AR 9. The description shall include the key information necessary to ensure a faithful representation
of the policies in relation to consumers and end-users, and therefore, the undertaking shall
consider explanations of significant changes to the policies adopted during the reporting year
(for example, new expectations for business customers, new or additional approaches to
due diligence and remedy).
AR 10. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding consumers and/or end users
or be included in a broader document such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability
policy that has already been disclosed by the undertaking as part of another
ESRS. In those cases, the undertaking shall provide an accurate cross-reference to identify
the aspects of the policy that satisfy the requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.
AR 11. In disclosing its alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, the undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the
International Bill of Human Rights, which consists of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the two Covenants that implement it, and may disclose its alignment with these
instruments.
AR 12. When disclosing how external facing policies are embedded, the undertaking may, for
example, consider internal-facing sales and distribution policies and alignment with other
policies relevant to consumers and/or end-users. The undertaking shall also consider its
policies for safeguarding the veracity and usefulness of information provided to potential and
actual consumers and/or end-users, both before and after sale.
AR 13. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to
those individuals, group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because
they are expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s employees,
contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in their implementation
(for example, own workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels
(for example, flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions,
workers’ representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different
audiences understand its implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies
and removes potential barriers for dissemination, such as through translation into relevant
languages or the use of graphic depictions.
40
Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users
about impacts
AR 14. Credible proxies who have knowledge of the interests, experiences or perspectives of
consumers and end-users could include national consumer protection bodies for some
consumers.
AR 15. When describing which function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement
and/or ultimate accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role
or function or part of a broader role or function, and whether any capacity building activities
have been offered to support the staff to undertake engagement. If it cannot identify such a
position or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure could also be fulfilled
by making reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies.
AR 16. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 20 b) and c), the following illustrations
may be considered:
(a) for stage(s) at which engagement occurs, examples could be in determining
mitigation approaches or in evaluating their effectiveness;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether
engagement occurs on a regular basis, at certain points in a project or business
process, as well as whether it occurs in response to legal requirements and/or in
response to stakeholder requests and whether the result of the engagement is being
integrated into the undertaking's decision-making processes; and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant
staff to have certain skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to relevant
staff to undertake engagement.
AR 17. To illustrate how the perspectives of consumers and/or end-users have informed specific
decisions or activities of the undertaking, the undertaking may provide examples from the current
reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels
for consumers and end-users to raise concerns
AR 18. In fulfilling the requirements set out by the disclosure criteria of ESRS S4-3, the undertaking
may be guided by the content of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises focused on remediation and
grievance mechanisms.
AR 19. Channels for raising concerns or needs, include grievance mechanisms, hotlines, dialogue
processes or other means through which consumers and/or end-users or their legitimate
representatives can raise concerns about impacts or explain needs that they would like the
undertaking to address. This could include channels provided by the undertaking directly and
is to be disclosed in addition to any other mechanisms the undertaking may use to gain
insight into the management of impacts on consumers and/or end-users, such as compliance
audits. Where the undertaking is relying solely on information about the existence of such
channels provided by its business relationships to answer this requirement, it may state
that.
AR 20. To provide greater insight into the information covered in ESRS S4-3, the undertaking may
provide insight into whether and how consumers and/or end-users that may be affected
are able to access channels at the level of the undertaking they are affected by, in relation to
each material impact.
41
AR 21. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry
associations and other collaborative initiatives. With regard to the scope of these
mechanisms, the undertaking may disclose whether these are accessible to all consumers
and/or end-users who may be potentially or actually materially impacted by the undertaking,
or individuals or organisations acting on their behalf or who are otherwise in a position to be
aware of negative impacts, and through which consumers and/or end-users (or individuals
or organisations acting on their behalf or who are otherwise in a position to be aware of
negative impacts), can raise complaints or concerns related to the undertaking’s own
activities.
AR 22. In relation to the protection of individuals that use the mechanisms against the retaliation, the
undertaking may describe whether it treats grievances confidentially and with respect to the
rights of privacy and data protection; and whether they allow for consumer and/or endusers
to use them anonymously (for example, through representation by a third party).
AR 23. In disclosing whether and how the undertaking knows that consumers and/or end-users are
aware of and trust any of these channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable
data about the effectiveness of these channels from the perspective of consumers and/or
end-users themselves. Examples of sources of information are surveys of consumers and/or
end-users that have used such channels and their levels of satisfaction with the process and
outcomes. To illustrate the usage level of such channels, the undertaking may disclose the
number of complaints received from consumers and/or endusers during the reporting period.
AR 24. In describing the effectiveness of channels for consumers and/or end-users to raise
concerns, the undertaking may be guided by the following questions, based on the
“effectiveness criteria for nonjudicial grievance mechanisms”, as laid out in the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights. The below considerations may be applied on an
individual channel basis or for the collective system of channels:
(a) do the channels hold legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair
conduct and building stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have known procedures, set timeframes and clarity on the processes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access to sources of information, advice and
expertise?
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to
complainants and where applicable, to meet any public interest at stake?
(f) do the outcomes achieved from the channels accord with internationally recognised
human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous
learning in both improving the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed
solutions, rather than seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
For more information, see Principle 31 of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights.
42
Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and
end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those
actions
AR 25. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved
with them through its downstream value chain, as well as to identify appropriate responses
and put them into practice). Therefore, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) Its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
(b) its initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and (d) its
aims for continued improvement.
AR 26. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a
material impact, or whether the material impact is directly linked to its own operations,
products or services through a business relationship.
AR 27. Given that material negative impacts affecting consumers and/or end-users that have
occurred during the reporting period may also be linked to entities or operations outside its
direct control, the undertaking may disclose whether and how it seeks to use leverage with
relevant business relationships to manage those impacts. This may include using
commercial leverage (for example, enforcing contractual requirements with business
relationships or implementing incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship
(such as providing training or capacity-building on proper product use or sale practices to
business relationships) or collaborative leverage with peers or other actors (such as
initiatives aimed at responsible marketing or product safety).
AR 28. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative
as part of its actions to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose
how the initiative, and its own involvement, is aiming to address the material impact
concerned. It may disclose under ESRS S4-5 the relevant targets set by the initiative and
progress towards them.
AR 29. When disclosing whether and how it considers actual and potential impacts on consumers
and/or end-users in decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and how it
seeks to address any negative impacts that may result from termination, the undertaking
may include examples.
AR 30. In disclosing how it tracks the effectiveness of actions to manage material impacts during
the reporting period, the undertaking may disclose any lessons learned from the previous
and current reporting periods.
AR 31. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing
or verification, court proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments,
measurement systems, stakeholder feedback, grievance mechanisms, external
performance ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 32. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions
taken by the undertaking and the effective management of impacts.
AR 33. With regard to initiatives or processes the undertaking has in place that are based on affected
consumers and/or end-users’ needs and their level of implementation, the undertaking may
disclose:
(a) information about whether and how consumers and/or end-users and legitimate
representatives or their credible proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design
and implementation of these programmes or processes; and
43
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for consumers and/or
end- users of these programmes or processes.
AR 34. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to
deliver positive impacts for consumers and/or end-users are designed to also support the
achievement of one or more of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For
example, through a commitment to advance UN SDG 3 to “ensure healthy lives and promote
well-being for all at all ages” the undertaking may be actively working to make its products
less addictive and harmful to physical and psychological health.
AR 35. When disclosing the intended positive outcomes of its actions for consumers and/or end-
users a distinction is to be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred
(for example, that x number of consumers have received information about healthy eating
habits) from evidence of actual outcomes for consumers and/or end-users (for example, that
x number of consumers have adopted healthier eating habits).
AR 36. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material
negative impacts, the undertaking may, for example, consider programmes that aim to
support heightened awareness of the risk of online scams, leading to a reduction in the
number of cases of end-users experiencing breaches of data privacy.
AR 37. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or
dependencies on consumers and/or end-users, the undertaking may consider the
following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on consumers and/or end-users may include
reputational or legal exposure where poorly designed or defective products result in
injuries or deaths;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on consumers and/or end-users may
include the loss of business continuity where an economic crisis makes consumers
unable to afford certain products or services;
(c) business opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts on consumers and/or end-
users may include market differentiation and greater customer appeal from offering
safe products or privacy-respecting services; and
(d) business opportunities related to the undertaking’s dependencies on consumers
and/or end-users may include the achievement of a loyal future consumer base by
ensuring, for example, that LGBTQI people are respected and that the undertaking’s
selling practices do not exclude such people from the products or services it offers.
AR 38. When disclosing whether dependencies turn into risks, the undertaking shall consider external
developments.
AR 39. When disclosing policies, action and resources and targets related to the management of
material risks and opportunities, in cases where risks and opportunities arise from a material
impact, the undertaking may cross-reference its disclosures on policies, action and
resources and targets in relation to that impact.
AR 40. The undertaking shall consider the extent to which its processes to manage material risks
related to consumers and/or end-users are integrated into its existing risk management
processes and how.
AR 41. When disclosing the resources allocated to the management of material impacts, the
undertaking may disclose which internal functions are involved in managing the impacts and
what types of action they take to address negative and advance positive impacts.
44
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts,
advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
AR 42. When disclosing targets in relation to consumers and/or end-users, the undertaking may
disclose:
(a) the intended outcomes to be achieved in the lives of consumers and/or end-users, being
as specific as possible;
(b) their stability over time in terms of definitions and methodologies to enable
comparability; and/or
(c) references standards or commitments on which the targets are based are to be clearly
defined in the reporting (for instance codes of conduct, sourcing policies, global
frameworks or industry codes).
AR 43. Targets related to material risks and opportunities may be the same as or distinct from
targets tied to material impacts. For example, a target to ensure equal access to finance for
underserved consumers could both reduce discrimination impacts on those consumers
and enlarge the undertaking’s pool of customers.
AR 44. The undertaking may also distinguish between short, medium and long-term targets covering
the same policy commitment. For example, the undertaking may have as a main objective
to make its online services accessible to people with disabilities, with the longterm goal of
having adapted 100% of its online services by 2025, and with the short-term objective of
adding x number of accessible features every year up and until 2025.
AR 45. When modifying or replacing a target in the reporting period, the undertaking may explain the
change by cross-referencing it to significant changes in the business model or to broader
changes in the accepted standard or legislation from which the target is derived to provide
contextual information as per ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances.
45