ESRS G1 BUSINESS CONDUCT
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the
administrative, supervisory and management bodies
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2
IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks
and opportunities
o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and bBusiness conduct policies
and corporate culture
o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers o
Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of
corruption or bribery o Disclosure Requirement G1-5 – Political
influence and lobbying activities
o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices
Appendix A: Application Requirements
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement G1-1 – Corporate
culture and business conduct policies o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management
of relationships with suppliers o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and
detection of corruption and bribery
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-5 – Political influence and
lobbying activities o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment
practices
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of
the undertaking’s sustainability statements to understand the undertaking’s strategy and
approach, processes and procedures as well as its performance in respect of business conduct.
2. This Standard focusses on the following matters, collectively referred to in this Standard as
‘business conduct or business conduct matters’:
(a) business ethics and corporate culture, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery, the
protection of whistleblowers, and animal welfare;
(b) the management of relationships with suppliers, including payment practices, especially
with regard to late payment to small and medium-sized undertakings.
(c) activities and commitments of the undertaking related to exerting its political influence,
including its lobbying activities;
1
Interaction with other ESRS
3. The content of this Standard on general disclosures as well as impact, risk and opportunity
management and metrics and targets shall be read in conjunction respectively with ESRS 1
General principles and ESRS 2 General requirements.
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
4. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with and reported alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2 on Governance (GOV), Strategy (SBM) and Management of
impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO).
Governance
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies
5. When disclosing information about the role of the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies, the undertaking shall cover the following aspects:
(a) the role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies related to
business conduct; and
(b) the expertise of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies on business
conduct matters.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to
identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities
6. When describing the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities in relation to
business conduct matters, the undertaking shall disclose all relevant criteria used in the process,
including location, activity, sector and the structure of the transaction.
Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Business conduct policies and corporate culture
7. The undertaking shall disclose its policies with respect to business conduct matters and
how it fosters its corporate culture.
8. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which
the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or
remediation of its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to business conduct
matters. It also aims to provide an understanding of the undertaking’s approach to corporate
culture.
9. The disclosures required under paragraph 7 shall include how the undertaking establishes,
develops, promotes and evaluates its corporate culture.
2
10. The disclosures in paragraph 7 shall cover the following aspects related to the undertaking’s
policies on business conduct matters:
(a) a description of the mechanisms for identifying, reporting and investigating concerns
about unlawful behaviour or behaviour in contradiction of its code of conduct or similar
internal rules; and whether it accommodates reporting from internal and/or external
stakeholders;
(b) where the undertaking has no policies on anti-corruption or anti-bribery consistent with
the United Nations Convention against Corruption1, it shall state this and whether it has
plans to implement them and the timetable for implementation; (c) how the
undertaking protects whistleblowers, including:
i. details on the establishment of internal whistleblower reporting channels, including
whether the undertaking provides for information and training to its own workers
and information about the designation and training of staff receiving reports; and
ii. measures to protect against retaliation its own workers who are whistleblowers in
accordance with the applicable law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1937 of the
European Parliament and of the Council2;
(d) where the undertaking has no policies on the protection of whistle-blowers3, it shall state
this and whether it has plans to implement them and the timetable for implementation;
(e) beyond the procedures to follow-up on reports by whistleblowers in accordance with the
applicable law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1937, whether the undertaking has
procedures to investigate business conduct incidents, including incidents of corruption
and bribery, promptly, independently and objectively;
(f) where applicable, whether the undertaking has in place policies with respect to animal
welfare;
(g) the undertaking’s policy for training within the organisation on business conduct,
including target audience, frequency and depth of coverage; and
(h) the functions within the undertaking that are most at risk in respect of corruption and
bribery.
11. Undertakings that are subject to legal requirements under national law transposing Directive
(EU) 2019/1937, or to equivalent legal requirements with regard to the protection of
whistleblowers, may comply with the disclosure specified in paragraph 10 (d) by stating that they
are subject to those legal requirements.
Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers
12. The undertaking shall provide information about the management of its relationships with
its suppliers and its impacts on its supply chain.
13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the undertaking’s
management of its procurement process including fair behaviour with suppliers.
1 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #15 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Lack
of anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies”).
2 Directive (EU) 2019/1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who
report breaches of Union law (OJ L 305, 26.11.2019, p. 17).
3 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #6 in Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments
(“Insufficient whistleblower protection”).
3
14. The undertaking shall provide a description of its policy to prevent late payments, specifically to
SMEs.
15. The disclosure required under paragraph 12 shall include the following information:
(a) the undertaking’s approach to its relationships with its suppliers, taking account of risks
to the undertaking related to its supply chain and of impacts on sustainability matters;
and
(b) whether and how it takes into account social and environmental criteria for the selection
of its suppliers.
Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery
16. The undertaking shall provide information about its system to prevent and detect,
investigate, and respond to allegations or incidents relating to corruption and bribery
including the related training.
17. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide transparency on the key procedures
of the undertaking to prevent, detect, and address allegations about corruption and bribery.
This includes the training provided to own workers and/or information provided internally or to
suppliers.
18. The disclosure required under paragraph 16 shall include the following information:
(a) a description of the procedures in place to prevent, detect, and address allegations or
incidents of corruption and bribery;
(b) whether the investigators or investigating committee are separate from the chain of
management involved in the matter; and
(c) the process, if any, to report outcomes to the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies.
19. Where the undertaking has no such procedures in place, it shall disclose this fact and, where
applicable, its plans to adopt them.
20. The disclosures required by paragraph 16 shall include information about how the undertaking
communicates its policies to those for whom they are relevant to ensure that the policy is
accessible and that they understand its implications.
21. The disclosure required by paragraph 16 shall include information about the following with
respect to training:
(a) the nature, scope and depth of anti-corruption and anti-bribery training programmes
offered or required by the undertaking;
(b) the percentage of functions-at-risk covered by training programmes; and
(c) the extent to which training is given to members of the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Incidents of corruption or bribery
22. The undertaking shall provide information on incidents of corruption or bribery during
the reporting period.
4
23. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide transparency on the incidents relating
to corruption or bribery during the reporting period and the related outcomes.
24. The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) the number of convictions and the amount of fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-
bribery laws4; and
(b) any actions taken to address breaches in procedures and standards of anti-corruption
and anti-bribery5.
25. The undertaking may disclose:
(a) the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery;
(b) the number of confirmed incidents in which own workers were dismissed or disciplined
for corruption or bribery-related incidents;
(c) the number of confirmed incidents relating to contracts with business partners that were
terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption or bribery; and
(d) details of public legal cases regarding corruption or bribery brought against the
undertaking and its own workers during the reporting period and the outcomes of such
cases. This includes cases that were initiated in previous years where the outcome was
only established in the current reporting period.
26. The disclosures required shall include incidents involving actors in its value chain only where
the undertaking or its employees are directly involved.
Disclosure Requirement G1-5 – Political influence and lobbying activities
27. The undertaking shall provide information on the activities and commitments related to
exerting its political influence, including its lobbying activities related to its material
impacts, risks and opportunities.
28. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide transparency on the undertaking’s
activities and commitments related to exerting its political influence with political contributions,
including the types and purpose of lobbying activities.
29. The disclosure required by paragraph 27 shall include:
(a) if applicable, the representative(s) responsible in the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies for the oversight of these activities; (b) for financial or in-kind political
contributions:
i. the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and
indirectly by the undertaking aggregated by country or geographical area where relevant, as
well as type of recipient/beneficiary; and
ii. where appropriate, how the monetary value of in-kind contributions is estimated.
4 This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out in indicator #17 of Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments
(“Number of convictions and amount of fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws”); and benchmark
administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Numbers of convictions
and amount of fines for violations of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.
5 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out in in indicator #16 of Table III of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Cases
of insufficient action taken to address breaches of standards of anti-corruption and anti-bribery”).
5
(c) the main topics covered by its lobbying activities and the undertaking’s main positions
on these in brief. This shall include explanations on how this interacts with its material
impacts, risks and opportunities identified in its materiality assessment per ESRS 2; and
(d) if the undertaking is registered in the EU Transparency Register or in an equivalent
transparency register in a Member State, the name of any such register and its
identification number in the register.
30. The disclosure shall also include information about the appointment of any members of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies who held a comparable position in
public administration (including regulators) in the 2 years preceding such appointment in the
current reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices
31. The undertaking shall provide information on its payment practices, especially with
respect to late payments to small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
32. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide insights on the contractual payment
terms and on its performance with regard to payment, especially as to how these impact SMEs
and specifically with respect to late payments to SMEs.
33. The disclosure under paragraph 31 shall include:
(a) the average time the undertaking takes to pay an invoice from the date when the
contractual or statutory term of payment starts to be calculated, in number of days;
(b) a description of the undertaking’s standard payment terms in number of days by main
category of suppliers and the percentage of its payments aligned with these standard
terms;
(c) the number of legal proceedings currently outstanding for late payments; and
(d) complementary information necessary to provide sufficient context. If the undertaking has
used representative sampling to calculate the information required under point (a), it shall
state that fact and briefly describe the methodology used.
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS G1 Business conduct. It supports the application of the
disclosure requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the
Standard.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement G1-1 – Business conduct policies and corporate culture
AR 1. The undertaking may consider the following aspects when determining its disclosure
under paragraph 7:
(a) the aspects of corporate culture that are taken into consideration and discussed by the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies and with which frequency;
(b) the principal themes that are promoted and communicated as part of the corporate
culture;
6
(c) how the members of the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory
bodies provide direction to promote a corporate culture; and
(d) specific incentives or tools for its own workers to foster and encourage its corporate
culture.
Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers
AR 2. For purposes of this standard, management of relationships with the undertaking’s suppliers
may include the following:
(a) how the undertaking’s practices, including activities to avoid or minimise the impacts of
disruptions to its supply chain, support its strategy and risk management;
(b) training of the undertaking’s procurement/supply chain workforce on engagement and
dialogue with suppliers as well as incentives of its procurement workforce including
whether such incentives refer to price, quality or sustainability factors;
(c) the screening and evaluation of social and environmental performance of suppliers;
(d) the inclusion of locally based suppliers in its supply chain and/or suppliers with
certification;
(e) how the undertaking’s practices deal with vulnerable suppliers;
(f) the undertaking’s targets and actions with regard to communication and
management of relationships with suppliers; and
(g) how the outcomes of these practices are evaluated, including supplier visits, audits or
surveys.
AR 3. 'Vulnerable suppliers’ includes suppliers that are exposed to significant economic,
environmental and/or social risks.
Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery
AR 4. ‘Functions-at-risk’ means those functions deemed to be at risk of corruption and bribery as
a result of its tasks and responsibilities.
AR 5. Disclosures may include details about the risk assessments and/or mapping, as well as
monitoring programmes and/or internal control procedures performed by the undertaking to
detect corruption and bribery.
AR 6. The undertaking’s policies on corruption and bribery may be relevant to specific groups of
people, either because they are expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s
employees, contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in their
implementation (for example, value chain workers, investors). The undertaking may disclose
the communication tools and channels (e.g., flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social
media, face to face interactions, unions and/or workers representatives) to communicate
policies to such groups. This may also include the identification and/or removal of potential
barriers to dissemination, such as through translation into relevant languages or the use of
graphic depictions.
AR 7. The undertaking may disclose an analysis of its training activities by, for example, region of
training or category of own workforce where its programmes differ significantly based on
such factors and such information would be useful to users.
AR 8. The undertaking may present the required information about training using the following table:
Anti-corruption and bribery training illustrative example
7
During the 20XY financial year ABC provided training to its at-risk own workers in terms of its
policy (see note x). For those at-risk functions the training is mandatory, but ABC also made
available voluntary training for other own workers. Details of its training during the year is as
follows:
Other own
At-risk Managers AMSB6
workers
functions
Training coverage
Total 20,000 200 16 70,000
Total receiving training 19,500 150 8 5,000
Delivery method and
duration
Classroom training 5 hours
Computer-based training 1 hour 2 hours 1 hour
Voluntary computer-based 1 hour
training
Frequency
How often training is required Annually Annually Bi-annually -
Topics covered
Definition of corruption X X X X
Policy X X X X
Procedures on X X
suspicion/detection
Etc. X
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement G1-5 – Political influence and lobbying activities
AR 9. For purposes of this Standard ‘political contribution’ means financial or in-kind support provided
directly to political parties, their elected representatives or persons seeking political office.
Financial contributions can include donations, loans, sponsorships, advance payments for
services, or the purchase of tickets for fundraising events and other similar practices. In-kind
contributions can include advertising, use of facilities, design and printing, donation of
equipment, provision of board membership, employment or consultancy work for elected
politicians or candidates for office.
AR 10. ‘Indirect political contribution’ refers to those political contributions made through an
intermediary organisation such as a lobbyist or charity, or support given to an organisation
such as a think tank or trade association linked to or supporting particular political parties or
causes.
AR 11. When determining ‘comparable position’ in this standard, the undertaking shall consider various
factors, including level of responsibility and scope of activities undertaken.
AR 12. The undertaking may provide the following information on its financial or in-kind contributions
with regard to its lobbying expenses:
6 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies.
8
(a) the total monetary amount of such internal and external expenses; and (b)
the total amount paid for membership to lobbying associations.
AR 13. If the undertaking is legally obliged to be a member of a chamber of commerce or other
organisation that represents its interests, it may disclose that this is the case.
AR 14. In meeting the requirement in paragraph 29(c) the undertaking shall consider the alignment
between its public statements on its material impacts, risks and opportunities and its
lobbying activities.
AR 15. An example of what such disclosures could look like:
Political engagement (including lobbying activities) illustrative example
During the 20XY financial year ABC was involved in activities around the proposed regulation
XXX which could have significant negative impacts on its business model if implemented in
the current format. ABC’s considers that while the proposed regulation will realise some
improvements to the regulatory regime such as xxx, in its current format the costs relating to
xxx will outweigh the benefits. ABC and its peers continue to work with XXX (the regulator)
to improve this balance.
ABC also supported the QRP political party in Country X and EFG party in Country Y as both
…. ABC is registered in its local transparency register, i.e., XYZ, and its registration number
is 987234.
Amounts in € thousands.
2023 2022 [TBC]
Political funding provided 100
Funding to QRP 75
Funding to EFG 25
100
Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices
AR 16. In some cases, the undertaking’s standard contractual payment terms may differ significantly
depending on country or type of supplier. In such cases, information about the standard
terms per main categories of suppliers or country or geographical region could be examples
of additional contextual information to explain the disclosures in paragraph 33(b).
AR 17. An example of what the description of standard contract term disclosures in paragraph 33(b)
could look like:
ABC’s standard contract payment terms are payment on receipt of invoice for wholesalers
which encompass approximately 80% of its annual invoices by value. It pays for services
received within 30 days after receipt of the invoice which are about 5% of its annual invoices.
The remainder of its invoices are paid within 60 days of receipt except for those in country X
which in accordance with the marketplace standards are paid within 90 days of receipt.
9