ESRS 2 GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Table of contents
Objective
1. Basis for preparation
Disclosure Requirement BP-1 – General basis for preparation of sustainability statements
Disclosure Requirement BP-2 – Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances
2. Governance
Disclosure Requirement GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies
Disclosure Requirement GOV-2 – Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed
by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies
Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive
schemes
Disclosure Requirement GOV-4 - Statement on due diligence
Disclosure Requirement GOV-5 - Risk management and internal controls over sustainability
reporting
3. Strategy
Disclosure Requirement SBM-1 – Strategy, business model and value chain
Disclosure Requirement SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their
interaction with strategy and business model 4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
4.1 Disclosures on the materiality assessment process
Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 - Description of the processes to identify and assess
material impacts, risks and opportunities
Disclosure Requirement IRO-2 – Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the
undertaking’s sustainability statement
4.2 Minimum disclosure requirement on policies and actions
Minimum disclosure requirement - Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to manage material
sustainability matters
Minimum disclosure requirement - Actions MDR-A – Actions and resources in relation to
material sustainability matters
5. Metrics and targets
Minimum disclosure requirement – Metrics MDR-M – Metrics in relation to material
sustainability matters
Minimum disclosure requirement – Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and
actions through targets
Appendix A: Application Requirements
1. Basis for preparation
Disclosure Requirement BP-1 – General basis for preparation of the sustainability
statement
2. Governance
Disclosure Requirement GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies
Disclosure Requirement GOV-2 – Information provided to and sustainability matters
addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies
Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-
related performance in incentive schemes
1
Disclosure Requirement GOV-4 – Statement on due diligence
Disclosure Requirement GOV-5 – Risk management and internal controls over
sustainability reporting
3. Strategy
Disclosure Requirement SBM–1 Strategy, business model and value chain
Disclosure Requirement SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their
interaction with strategy and business model
4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement IRO-2 – Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the
undertaking’s sustainability statement
Minimum Disclosure Requirement - Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to
manage material sustainability matters
Minimum Disclosure Requirement - Actions MDR-A – Actions and resources in relation to
material sustainability matters
5. Metrics and targets
Minimum Disclosure Requirement - Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and
actions through targets
Appendix B: List of datapoints in cross-cutting and topical standards that derive from other EU
legislation
Appendix C: Disclosure/Application Requirements in topical ESRS that are applicable jointly with ESRS
2 General Disclosures
Objective
1. This ESRS sets out the disclosure requirements that apply to all undertakings regardless of their sector of
activity (i.e., sector agnostic) and apply across sustainability topics (i.e., crosscutting). This ESRS covers
the reporting areas defined in ESRS 1 General requirements section 1.2 Cross-Cutting Standards and
reporting areas.
2. In the preparation of disclosures under this Standard, the undertaking shall apply the Disclosure
Requirements (including their datapoints) set in topical ESRS, as listed in Appendix C of this
Standard Disclosure/Application Requirements in topical ESRS that are applicable jointly with ESRS 2
General Disclosures. The undertaking shall apply the requirements listed in Appendix C:
(a) in all instances for the requirements in topical standards related to Disclosure Requirement IRO-1
Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities; and
(b) for all other requirements listed in appendix C, only if the sustainability topic is material based on the
undertaking’s materiality assessment (see ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the basis for
sustainability disclosures).
1. Basis for preparation
Disclosure Requirement BP-1 – General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement
3. The undertaking shall disclose the general basis for preparation of its sustainability statement.
4. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of how the undertaking
prepares its sustainability statement, including the scope of consolidation, the upstream and downstream
value chain information and, where relevant, whether the undertaking has used any of the options for
omitting information referred to in points d) and e) in the following paragraph.
5. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
2
(a) whether the sustainability statement has been prepared on a consolidated or individual basis;
(b) for consolidated sustainability statements:
i. a confirmation that the scope of consolidation is the same as for the financial statements, or, where
applicable, a declaration that the reporting undertaking is not required to draw-up financial
statements or that the reporting undertaking is preparing consolidated sustainability reporting
pursuant to Article 48i of Directive 2013/34/EU; and ii. where applicable, an indication of which
subsidiary undertakings included in the consolidation are exempted from individual or consolidated
sustainability reporting pursuant to Articles 19a(9) or 29a(8) of Directive 2013/34/EU;
(c) to what extent the sustainability statement covers the undertaking’s upstream and downstream
value chain (see ESRS 1 section 5.1 Reporting undertaking and value chain);
(d) whether the undertaking has used the option to omit a specific piece of information corresponding
to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation (see ESRS 1 section 7.7 Classified
and sensitive information and information on intellectual property, know-how or results of
innovation); and
(e) for undertakings based in an EU member state that allows for the exemption from disclosure of
impending developments or matters in the course of negotiation, as provided for in articles 19a(3)
and 29a(3) of Directive 2013/34/EU, whether the undertaking has used that exemption.
Disclosure Requirement BP-2 – Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances
6. The undertaking shall provide disclosures in relation to specific circumstances.
7. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the effect of these specific
circumstances on the preparation of the sustainability statement.
8. The undertaking may report this information alongside the disclosures to which they refer.
Time horizons
9. When the undertaking has deviated from the medium- or long-term time horizons defined by ESRS 1
section 6.4 Definition of short-, medium- and long-term for reporting purposes, it shall describe:
(a) its definitions of medium- or long-term time horizons; and (b) the reasons for applying those
definitions.
Value chain estimation
10. When metrics include upstream and/or downstream value chain data estimated using indirect sources,
such as sector-average data or other proxies, the undertaking shall:
(a) identify the metrics;
(b) describe the basis for preparation;
(c) describe the resulting level of accuracy; and
(d) where applicable, describe the planned actions to improve the accuracy in the future (see ESRS
1 chapter 5 Value chain).
Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty
11. In accordance with ESRS 1 section 7.2 Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty, the undertaking
shall:
(a) identify the quantitative metrics and monetary amounts it has disclosed that are subject to a high
level of measurement uncertainty;
3
(b) in relation to each quantitative metric and monetary amount identified:
i. disclose information about the sources of measurement uncertainty (for example, the
dependence of the amount on the outcome of a future event, on a measurement technique or
on the availability and quality of data from the entity’s upstream and/or downstream value
chain); and
ii. disclose the assumptions, approximations and judgements the entity has made in measuring
it.
12. When disclosing forward-looking information, the undertaking may indicate that it considers such
information to be uncertain.
Changes in preparation or presentation of sustainability information
13. When changes in the preparation and presentation of sustainability information occur compared to the
previous reporting period(s), (see ESRS 1 section 7.4 Changes in preparation or presentation in
sustainability information), the undertaking shall:
(a) explain the changes and the reasons for them, including why the replaced metric provides more
useful information;
(b) disclose revised comparative figures, unless it is impracticable to do so. When it is impracticable to
adjust comparative information for one or more prior periods, the undertaking shall disclose that
fact; and
(c) disclose the difference between the figure disclosed in the preceding period and the revised
comparative figure.
Reporting errors in prior periods
14. When the undertaking identifies material prior period errors (see ESRS 1 section 7.5 Reporting errors in
prior periods), it shall disclose:
(a) the nature of the prior period material error;
(b) to the extent practicable, the correction for each prior period included in the sustainability statement;
and
(c) if correction of the error is not practicable, the circumstances that led to the existence of that
condition.
Disclosures stemming from other legislation or generally accepted sustainability reporting
pronouncements
15. When the undertaking includes in its sustainability statement information stemming from other legislation
which requires the undertaking to disclose sustainability information or from generally accepted
sustainability reporting standards and frameworks (see ESRS 1 section 8.2 Content and structure of the
sustainability statement), in addition to the information prescribed by ESRS, it shall disclose this fact. In
case of partial application of other reporting standards or frameworks, the undertaking shall provide a
precise reference to the paragraphs of the standard or framework applied.
Incorporation by reference
16. When the undertaking incorporates information by reference (see ESRS 1 section 9.1 Incorporation by
reference), it shall disclose a list of the disclosure requirements of ESRS, or the specific datapoints
mandated by a Disclosure Requirement, that have been incorporated by reference.
Use of phase-In provisions in accordance with Appendix C of ESRS 1
4
17. If an undertaking or group not exceeding on its balance sheet date the average number of 750 employees
during the financial year decides to omit the information required by ESRS E4, ESRS S1, ESRS S2, ESRS
S3 or ESRS S4 in accordance with Appendix C of ESRS 1, it shall nevertheless disclose whether the
sustainability topics covered respectively by ESRS E4, ESRS S1, ESRS S2, ESRS S3 and ESRS S4 have
been assessed to be material as a result of the undertaking’s materiality assessment. In addition, if one or
more of these topics has been assessed to be material, the undertaking shall, for each material topic:
(a) disclose the list of matters (i.e. topic, sub-topic or sub-sub-topic) in AR 16 ESRS 1
Appendix A that are assessed to be material and briefly describe how the undertaking’s business model
and strategy take account of the impacts of the undertaking related to those matters. The undertaking
may identify the matter at the level of topic, sub-topic or sub-sub-topic;
(b) briefly describe any time-bound targets it has set related to the matters in question, the progress
it has made towards achieving those targets, and whether its targets related to biodiversity and
ecosystems are based on conclusive scientific evidence;
(c) briefly describe its policies in relation to the matters in question;
(d) briefly describe actions it has taken to identify, monitor, prevent, mitigate, remediate or bring an
end to actual or potential adverse impacts related to the matters in question, and the result of such
actions; and
(e) disclose metrics relevant to the matters in question.
2. Governance
18. The objective of this chapter is to set disclosure requirements that enable an understanding of the
governance processes, controls and procedures put in place to monitor, manage and oversee
sustainability matters.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies
19. The undertaking shall disclose the composition of the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies, their roles and responsibilities and access to expertise and skills with regard to
sustainability matters.
20. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of:
(a) the composition and diversity of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies;
(b) the roles and responsibilities of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies in
exercising oversight of the process to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities, including
management’s role in these processes; and
(c) the expertise and skills of its administrative, management and supervisory bodies on sustainability
matters or access to such expertise and skills.
21. The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the composition and diversity of the members
of the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies:
(a) the number of executive and non-executive members;
(b) representation of employees and other workers;
(c) experience relevant to the sectors, products and geographic locations of the undertaking;
(d) percentage by gender and other aspects of diversity that the undertaking considers. The board's
gender diversity1 shall be calculated as an average ratio of female to male board members; and
1 This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived
from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out by indicator #13 in Table I of Annex I of Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 of 6 April 2022 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council with
5
(e) the percentage of independent board members2 . oor undertakings with a unitary board, this
corresponds to the percentage of independent non-executive board members. oor undertakings with
a dual board, it corresponds to the percentage of independent members of the supervisory body.
22. The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the roles and responsibilities of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies:
(a) the identity of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (such as a board
committee or similar) or individual(s) within a body responsible for oversight of impacts, risks and
opportunities;
(b) how each body’s or individual’s responsibilities for impacts, risks and opportunities are reflected in
the undertaking’s terms of reference, board mandates and other related policies;
(c) a description of management’s role in the governance processes, controls and procedures used to
monitor, manage and oversee impacts, risks and opportunities, including:
i. whether that role is delegated to a specific management-level position or committee and how
oversight is exercised over that position or committee;
ii. information about the reporting lines to the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies;
iii. whether dedicated controls and procedures are applied to the management of impacts, risks
and opportunities and, if so, how they are integrated with other internal functions; and
(d) how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior executive management
oversee the setting of targets related to material impacts, risks and opportunities, and how they
monitor progress towards them.
23. The disclosure shall include a description of how the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies determine whether appropriate skills and expertise are available or will be developed to oversee
sustainability matters, including:
(a) the sustainability-related expertise that the bodies, as a whole, either directly possess or can
leverage, for example through access to experts or training; and
(b) how those skills and expertise relate to the undertaking's material impacts, risks and opportunities.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-2 – Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed
by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies
24. The undertaking shall disclose how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies are
informed about sustainability matters and how these matters were addressed during the reporting
period.
25. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of how administrative,
management and supervisory bodies are informed about sustainability matters, as well as what
information and matters they addressed during the reporting period. This in turn allows an understanding
of whether the members of these bodies were adequately informed and whether they were able to fulfil
their roles.
26. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) whether, by whom and how frequently the administrative, management and supervisory bodies,
including their relevant committees, are informed about material impacts, risks and opportunities
(see Disclosure Requirement IRO–1 - Description of the processes to identify and assess material
regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Board gender diversity”) and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors
subject to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European
Parliament and of the Council as set out by indicator “Weighted average ratio of female to male board members” in section 1 and 2 of Annex
II.
2 This information supports the information needs of benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU)
2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Weighted average percentage of board members who are independent” in section I of Annex II.
6
impacts, risks and opportunities of this Standard), the implementation of due diligence, and the
results and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics and targets adopted to address them;
(b) how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies consider impacts, risks and
opportunities when overseeing the undertaking’s strategy, its decisions on major transactions, and
its risk management process, including whether they have considered trade-offs associated with
those impacts, risks and opportunities; and
(c) a list of the material impacts, risks and opportunities addressed by the administrative, management
and supervisory bodies, or their relevant committees during the reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive
schemes
27. The undertaking shall disclose information about the integration of its sustainabilityrelated
performance in incentive schemes.
28. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of whether incentive schemes
are offered to members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies that are linked to
sustainability matters.
29. The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the incentive schemes and remuneration
policies linked to sustainability matters for members of the undertaking's administrative, management
and supervisory bodies, where they exist:
(a) a description of the key characteristics of the incentive schemes;
(b) whether performance is being assessed against specific sustainability-related targets and/or
impacts, and if so, which ones;
(c) whether and how sustainability-related performance metrics are considered as performance
benchmarks or included in remuneration policies;
(d) the proportion of variable remuneration dependent on sustainability-related targets and/or impacts;
and
(e) the level in the undertaking at which the terms of incentive schemes are approved and updated.
Disclosure Requirement GOV–4 - Statement on due diligence
30. The undertaking shall disclose a mapping of the information provided in its sustainability
statement about the due diligence process.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to facilitate an understanding of the undertaking’s due
diligence process with regard to sustainability matters.
32. The main aspects and steps of due diligence referred to under ESRS 1 chapter 4 Due diligence are related
to a number of cross-cutting and topical Disclosure Requirements under the ESRS. The undertaking shall
provide a mapping that explains how and where its application of the main aspects and steps of the due
diligence process are reflected in its sustainability statement, to allow a depiction of the actual practices
of the undertaking with regard to due diligence3.
33. This disclosure requirement does not mandate any specific behavioural requirements with regard to due
diligence actions and does not extend or modify the role of administrative, management and
supervisory bodies as mandated by other legislation or regulation.
3 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived
from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table III
7
Disclosure Requirement GOV–5 - Risk management and internal controls over sustainability
reporting
34. The undertaking shall disclose the main features of its risk management and internal control system
in relation to the sustainability reporting process.
35. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the undertaking’s risk
management and internal control processes in relation to sustainability reporting.
36. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) the scope, main features and components of the risk management and internal control processes
and systems in relation to sustainability reporting;
(b) the risk assessment approach followed, including the risk prioritisation methodology;
(c) the main risks identified and their mitigation strategies including related controls;
(d) a description of how the undertaking integrates the findings of its risk assessment and internal
controls as regards the sustainability reporting process into relevant internal functions and
processes; and
(e) a description of the periodic reporting of the findings referred to in point (d) to the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies.
3. Strategy
37. This chapter sets disclosure requirements that enable an understanding of:
(a) the elements of the undertaking’s strategy that relate to or affect sustainability matters, its
business model and its value chain;
(b) how the interests and views of the undertaking’s stakeholders are taken into account by the
undertaking’s strategy and business model; and
(c) the outcome of the undertaking’s assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities,
including how they inform its strategy and business model.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-1 – Strategy, business model and value chain
38. The undertaking shall disclose the elements of its strategy that relate to or impact sustainability
matters, its business model and its value chain.
39. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to describe the key elements of the undertaking’s general
strategy that relate to or affect sustainability matters, and the key elements of the undertaking’s business
model and value chain, in order to provide an understanding of its exposure to impacts, risks and
opportunities and where they originate.
40. The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the key elements of its general strategy that
relate to or affect sustainability matters:
(a) a description of:
i. significant groups of products and/or services offered, including changes in the
of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of due
diligence”).
reporting period (new/removed products and/or services);
8
ii. significant markets and/or customer groups served, including changes in the reporting period
(new/removed markets and/or customer groups);
iii. headcount of employees by geographical areas; and
iv. where applicable and material, products and services that are banned in certain markets;
(b) a breakdown of total revenue, as included in its financial statements, by significant ESRS sectors.
When the undertaking provides segment reporting as required by IoRS 8 Operating segments in its
financial statements, this sector revenue information shall be, as far as possible, reconciled with
IoRS 8 information;
(c) a list of the additional significant ESRS sectors beyond the ones reflected under paragraph 40(b),
such as activities that give rise to intercompany revenues, in which the undertaking develops
significant activities, or in which it is or may be connected to material impacts. The identification of
these additional ESRS sectors shall be consistent with the way they have been considered by the
undertaking when performing its materiality assessment and with the way it discloses material
sector-specific information;
(d) where applicable, a statement indicating, together with the related revenues, that the undertaking is
active in:
i. the fossil fuel (coal, oil and gas) sector4, (i.e., it derives revenues from exploration, mining,
extraction, production, processing, storage, refining or distribution, including transportation,
storage and trade, of fossil fuels as defined in Article 2, point (62), of Regulation (EU)
2018/1999 of the European Parliament and the Council5 ), including a disaggregation of
revenues derived from coal, from oil and from gas, as well as the revenues derived from
Taxonomy-aligned economic activities related to fossil gas as required under Article 8(7)(a) of
Commission Delegated Regulation 2021/217818; ii. chemicals production6, i.e., its activities
fall under Division 20.2 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006; iii. controversial
weapons 7 (anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions, chemical weapons and biological
weapons); and/or
iv. the cultivation and production of tobacco21;
(e) its sustainability-related goals in terms of significant groups of products and services, customer
categories, geographical areas and relationships with stakeholders;
(f) an assessment of its current significant products and/or services, and significant markets and
customer groups, in relation to its sustainability-related goals; and
(g) the elements of the undertaking’s strategy that relate to or impact sustainability matters, including
the main challenges ahead, critical solutions or projects to be put in place, when relevant for
sustainability reporting.
4 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived
from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out by indicator #4 in Table I of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Exposure to
companies active in the fossil fuel sector”).
5 Regulation (EU) 2018/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the Governance of the Energy Union
and Climate Action, amending Regulations (EC) No 663/2009 and (EC) No 715/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
Directives 94/22/EC, 98/70/EC, 2009/31/EC, 2009/73/EC, 2010/31/EU, 2012/27/EU and 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council, Council Directives 2009/119/EC and (EU) 2015/652 and repealing Regulation (EU) No 525/2013 of the European Parliament
and of the Council (OJ L 328, 21.12.2018, p. 1). 18 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of 6 July 2021 supplementing
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the content and presentation of information to be
disclosed by undertakings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic
activities, and specifying the methodology to comply with that disclosure obligation (OJ L 443, 10.12.2021, p. 9).
6 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived
from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out by indicator #9 in Table II of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Investments in
companies producing chemicals”).
7 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out by indicator #14 in Table I of Annex I of Commission
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Exposure to controversial weapons
(anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions, chemical weapons and biological weapons)”). 21 This information supports the needs of
benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 as set out by paragraph b) of article 12.1.
9
41. If the undertaking is based in an EU Member State that allows for an exemption from the disclosure of the
information referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1, sub-point (a) of Directive 2013/34/EU8 , and if the
undertaking has made use of that exemption, it may omit the breakdown of revenue by significant ESRS
sector required by paragraph 40(b). In this case the undertaking shall nevertheless disclose the list of ESRS
sectors that are significant for the undertaking.
42. The undertaking shall disclose a description of its business model and value chain, including:
(a) its inputs and its approach to gathering, developing and securing those inputs;
(b) its outputs and outcomes in terms of current and expected benefits for customers, investors and
other stakeholders; and
(c) the main features of its upstream and downstream value chain and the undertaking’s position in its
value chain, including a description of the main business actors (such as key suppliers, customers,
distribution channels and end-users) and their relationship to the undertaking. When the undertaking
has multiple value chains, the disclosure shall cover the key value chains.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
43. The undertaking shall disclose how the interests and views of its stakeholders are taken into
account by the undertaking’s strategy and business model.
44. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of how stakeholders’ interests
and views inform the undertaking’s strategy and business model.
45. The undertaking shall disclose a summarised description of:
(a) its stakeholder engagement, including:
i. the undertaking’s key stakeholders;
ii. whether engagement with them occurs and for which categories of stakeholders;
iii. how it is organised;
iv. its purpose; and
v. how its outcome is taken into account by the undertaking;
(b) the undertaking’s understanding of the interests and views of its key stakeholders as they relate to
the undertaking’s strategy and business model, to the extent that these were analysed during the
undertaking’s due diligence process and/or materiality assessment process (see Disclosure
Requirement IRO-1 of this Standard);
(c) where applicable, amendments to its strategy and/or business model, including:
i. how the undertaking has amended or expects to amend its strategy and/or business model
to address the interests and views of its stakeholders;
ii. any further steps that are being planned and in what timeline; and
iii. whether these steps are likely to modify the relationship with and views of stakeholders; and
(d) whether and how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies are informed about
the views and interests of affected stakeholders with regard to the undertaking’s sustainability-
related impacts.
8 Article 18, paragraph 1, sub-point (a) of Directive 2013/34/EU: “the net turnover broken down by categories of activity and into geographical
markets, in so far as those categories and markets differ substantially from one another, taking account of the manner in which the sale of
products and the provision of services are organised.”
10
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their
interaction with strategy and business model
46. The undertaking shall disclose its material impacts, risks and opportunities and how they interact
with its strategy and business model.
47. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the material impacts, risks
and opportunities as they result from the undertaking’s materiality assessment and how they originate
from and trigger adaptation of the undertaking’s strategy and business model including its resources
allocation. The information to be disclosed about the management of the undertaking’s material impacts,
risks and opportunities is prescribed in topical ESRS and in sector-specific standards, which shall be
applied in conjunction with the Minimum Disclosure Requirements on policies, actions and targets
established in this Standard.
48. The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) a brief description of its material impacts, risks and opportunities resulting from its materiality
assessment (see Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 of this standard), including a description of where
in its business model, its own operations and its upstream and downstream value chain these
material impacts, risks and opportunities are concentrated;
(b) the current and anticipated effects of its material impacts, risks and opportunities on its business
model, value chain, strategy and decision-making, and how it has responded or plans to respond to
these effects, including any changes it has made or plans to make to its strategy or business model
as part of its actions to address particular material impacts or risks, or to pursue particular material
opportunities; (c) with reference to the undertaking’s material impacts:
i. how the undertaking’s material negative and positive impacts affect (or, in the case of potential
impacts, are likely to affect) people or the environment;
ii. whether and how the impacts originate from or are connected to the undertaking's strategy
and business model;
iii. the reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts; and
iv. whether the undertaking is involved with the material impacts through its activities or because
of its business relationships, describing the nature of the activities or business relationships
concerned;
(e) the current financial effects of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities on its financial
position, financial performance and cash flows and the material risks and opportunities for which
there is a significant risk of a material adjustment within the next annual reporting period to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the related financial statements;
(f) the anticipated financial effects of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities on its financial
position, financial performance and cash flows over the short-, medium- and long-term, including the
reasonably expected time horizons for those effects. This shall include how the undertaking expects
its financial position, financial performance and cash flows to change over the short, medium- and
long-term, given its strategy to manage risks and opportunities, taking into consideration:
i. its investment and disposal plans (for example, capital expenditure, major
acquisitions and divestments, joint ventures, business transformation, innovation, new
business areas and asset retirements), including plans the undertaking is not contractually
committed to; and
ii. its planned sources of funding to implement its strategy.
(g) information about the resilience of the undertaking's strategy and business model regarding its
capacity to address its material impacts and risks and to take advantage of its material opportunities.
The undertaking shall disclose a qualitative and, when applicable, a quantitative analysis of the
resilience, including how the analysis was conducted and the time horizons that were applied as
11
defined in ESRS 1 (see ESRS 1 chapter 6 Time horizons). When providing quantitative information,
the undertaking may disclose single amounts or ranges;
(h) changes to the material impacts, risks and opportunities compared to the previous reporting period;
and
(i) a specification of those impacts, risks and opportunities that are covered by ESRS Disclosure
Requirements as opposed to those covered by the undertaking using additional entity-specific
disclosures.
49. The undertaking may disclose the descriptive information required in paragraph 46 alongside the
disclosures provided under the corresponding topical ESRS, in which case it shall still present a statement
of its material impacts, risks and opportunities alongside its disclosures prepared under this chapter of
ESRS 2.
4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
4.1 Disclosures on the materiality assessment process
50. This chapter sets disclosure requirements that enable an understanding of:
(a) the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities; and
(b) the information that, as a result of its materiality assessment, the undertaking has included in its
sustainability statement.
Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 - Description of the process to identify and assess material
impacts, risks and opportunities
51. The undertaking shall disclose its process to identify its impacts, risks and opportunities and to
assess which ones are material.
52. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the process through which
the undertaking identifies impacts, risks and opportunities and assesses their materiality, as the basis
for determining the disclosures in its sustainability statement (see ESRS 1 chapter 3 and its related
Application Requirements, which set out requirements and principles regarding the process to identify and
assess material impacts, risks and opportunities based on the principle of double materiality).
53. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) a description of the methodologies and assumptions applied in the described process;
(b) an overview of the process to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor the undertaking’s potential and
actual impacts on people and the environment, informed by the undertaking’s due diligence process,
including an explanation of whether and how the process:
i. focusses on specific activities, business relationships, geographies or other factors that give
rise to heightened risk of adverse impacts;
ii. considers the impacts with which the undertaking is involved through its own operations or as
a result of its business relationships;
iii. includes consultation with affected stakeholders to understand how they may be impacted
and with external experts;
iv. prioritises negative impacts based on their relative severity and likelihood, (see ESRS 1
section 3.4 Impact materiality) and, if applicable, positive impacts on their relative scale,
scope and likelihood, and determines which sustainability matters are material for reporting
purposes, including the qualitative or quantitative thresholds and other criteria used as
prescribed by ESRS 1 section 3.4 Impact materiality;
12
(c) an overview of the process used to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor risks and opportunities
that have or may have financial effects. The disclosure shall include:
i. how the undertaking has considered the connections of its impacts and dependencies with
the risks and opportunities that may arise from those impacts and dependencies;
ii. how the undertaking assesses the likelihood, magnitude, and nature of effects of the identified
risk and opportunities (such as the qualitative or quantitative thresholds and other criteria
used as prescribed by ESRS 1 section 3.3 Financial materiality);
iii. how the undertaking prioritises sustainability-related risks relative to other types of risks,
including its use of risk-assessment tools;
(d) a description of the decision-making process and the related internal control procedures;
(e) the extent to which and how the process to identify, assess and manage impacts and risks is
integrated into the undertaking’s overall risk management process and used to evaluate the
undertaking’s overall risk profile and risk management processes;
(f) the extent to which and how the process to identify, assess and manage opportunities is integrated
into the undertaking’s overall management process where applicable;
(g) the input parameters it uses (for example, data sources, the scope of operations covered and the
detail used in assumptions); and
(h) whether and how the process has changed compared to the prior reporting period, when the process
was modified for the last time and future revision dates of the materiality assessment.
Disclosure Requirement IRO-2 – Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the
undertaking’s sustainability statement
54. The undertaking shall report on the Disclosure Requirements complied with in its sustainability
statements.
55. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the Disclosure
Requirements included in the undertaking’s sustainability statement and of the topics that have been
omitted as not material, as a result of the materiality assessment.
56. The undertaking shall include a list of the Disclosure Requirements complied with in preparing the
sustainability statement, following the outcome of the materiality assessment (see ESRS 1 chapter 3),
including the page numbers and/or paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the
sustainability statement. This may be presented as a content index. The undertaking shall also include a
table of all the datapoints that derive from other EU legislation as listed in Appendix B of this standard,
indicating where they can be found in the sustainability statement and including those that the undertaking
has assessed as not material, in which case the undertaking shall indicate “Not material” in the table in
accordance with ESRS 1 paragraph 35.
57. If the undertaking concludes that climate change is not material and therefore omits all disclosure
requirements in ESRS E1 Climate change, it shall disclose a detailed explanation of the conclusions of its
materiality assessment with regard to climate change (see ESRS 2 IRO-
2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement), including a
forward-looking analysis of the conditions that could lead the undertaking to conclude that climate change
is material in the future.
58. If the undertaking concludes that a topic other than climate change is not material and therefore omits all
the Disclosure Requirements in the corresponding topical ESRS, it may provide a brief explanation of the
conclusions of its materiality assessment for that topic.
59. The undertaking shall provide an explanation of how it has determined the material information to be
disclosed in relation to the impacts, risks and opportunities that it has assessed to be material, including
the use of thresholds and/or how it has implemented the criteria in ESRS 1 section 3.2 Material matters
and materiality of information.
13
4.2 Minimum disclosure requirements on policies and actions
60. This section sets out minimum disclosure requirements to be included when the undertaking discloses
information on its policies and actions to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and potential material
impacts, to address material risks and/or to pursue material opportunities (collectively, to “manage
material sustainability matters”). They shall be applied together with the Disclosure Requirements,
including Application Requirements, provided in the relevant topical and sector-specific ESRS. They shall
also be applied when the undertaking prepares entity-specific disclosures.
61. The corresponding disclosures shall be located alongside disclosures prescribed by the relevant ESRS.
When a single policy or same actions address several interconnected sustainability matters, the
undertaking may disclose the required information in its reporting under one topical ESRS and cross
reference to it in its reporting under other topical ESRS.
62. If the undertaking cannot disclose the information on policies and actions required under relevant ESRS,
because it has not adopted policies and/or actions with reference to the specific sustainability matter
concerned, it shall disclose this to be the case, and provide reasons for not having adopted policies and/or
actions. The undertaking may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to adopt them.
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to manage material
sustainability matters
63. The undertaking shall apply the minimum disclosure requirements defined in this provision when it
discloses the policies it has in place with regard to each sustainability matter identified as material.
64. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the policies
that the undertaking has in place to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and potential impacts, to address
risks and to pursue opportunities.
65. The undertaking shall disclose information about policies adopted to manage material sustainability
matters. The disclosure shall include the following information:
(a) a description of the key contents of the policy, including its general objectives and which material
impacts, risks or opportunities the policy relates to and the process for monitoring;
(b) a description of the scope of the policy, or of its exclusions, in terms of activities, upstream and/or
downstream value chain, geographies and if relevant, affected stakeholder groups;
(c) the most senior level in the undertaking’s organisation that is accountable for the implementation of
the policy;
(d) a reference, if relevant, to the third-party standards or initiatives the undertaking commits to respect
through the implementation of the policy;
(e) if relevant, a description of the consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the
policy; and
(f) if relevant, whether and how the undertaking makes the policy available to potentially affected
stakeholders, and stakeholders who need to help implement it.
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Actions MDR-A – Actions and resources in relation to
material sustainability matters
66. The undertaking shall apply the requirements for the content of disclosures in this provision when it
describes the actions through which it manages each material sustainability matter including action plans
and resources allocated and/or planned.
67. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the key actions
taken and/or planned to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and potential impacts, and to address risks
and opportunities, and where applicable achieve the objectives and targets of related policies.
14
68. Where the implementation of a policy requires actions, or a comprehensive action plan, to achieve its
objectives, as well as when actions are implemented without a specific policy, the undertaking shall disclose
the following information:
(a) the list of key actions taken in the reporting year and planned for the future, their expected outcomes
and, where relevant, how their implementation contributes to the achievement of policy objectives
and targets;
(b) the scope of the key actions (i.e., coverage in terms of activities, upstream and/or downstream value
chain, geographies and, where applicable, affected stakeholder groups);
(c) the time horizons under which the undertaking intends to complete each key action;
(d) if applicable, key actions taken (along with results) to provide for and cooperate in or support the
provision of remedy for those harmed by actual material impacts;
(e) if applicable, quantitative and qualitative information regarding the progress of actions or action plans
disclosed in prior periods.
69. Where the implementation of an action plan requires significant operational expenditures (Opex) and/or
capital expenditures (Capex) the undertaking shall:
(a) describe the type of current and future financial and other resources allocated to the action plan,
including if applicable, the relevant terms of sustainable finance instruments, such as green bonds,
social bonds and green loans, the environmental or social objectives, and whether the ability to
implement the actions or action plan depends on specific preconditions, e.g., granting of financial
support or public policy and market developments;
(b) provide the amount of current financial resources and explain how they relate to the most relevant
amounts presented in the financial statements; and (c) provide the amount of future financial
resources.
5. Metrics and targets
70. This chapter sets out Minimum Disclosure Requirements that shall be included when the undertaking
discloses information on its metrics and targets related to each material sustainability matter. They shall
be applied together with the Disclosure Requirements, including Application Requirements, provided in the
relevant topical ESRS. They shall also be applied when the undertaking prepares entity-specific disclosures.
71. The corresponding disclosures shall be located alongside disclosures prescribed by the topical ESRS.
72. If the undertaking cannot disclose the information on targets required under the relevant topical ESRS,
because it has not set targets with reference to the specific sustainability matter concerned, it shall disclose
this to be the case, and provide reasons for not having adopted targets. The undertaking may disclose a
timeframe in which it aims to adopt them.
Minimum disclosure requirement – Metrics MDR-M – Metrics in relation to material sustainability
matters
73. The undertaking shall apply the requirements for the content of disclosures in this provision when it discloses
on the metrics it has in place with regard to each material sustainability matter.
74. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the metrics the
undertaking uses to track the effectiveness of its actions to manage material sustainability matters.
75. The undertaking shall disclose any metrics that it uses to evaluate performance and effectiveness, in
relation to a material impact, risk or opportunity.
76. Metrics shall include those defined in ESRS, as well as metrics identified on an entity-specific basis,
whether taken from other sources or developed by the undertaking itself.
15
77. oor each metric, the undertaking shall:
(a) disclose the methodologies and significant assumptions behind the metric, including the limitations
of the methodologies used;
(b) disclose whether the measurement of the metric is validated by an external body other than the
assurance provider and, if so, which body;
(c) label and define the metric using meaningful, clear and precise names and descriptions;
(d) when currency is specified as the unit of measure, use the presentation currency of its financial
statements.
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and
actions through targets
78. The undertaking shall apply the requirements for the content of disclosures in this provision when it discloses
information about the targets it has set with regard to each material sustainability matter.
79. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide for each material sustainability
matter an understanding of:
(a) whether and how the undertaking tracks the effectiveness of its actions to address material impacts,
risks and opportunities, including the metrics it uses to do so;
(b) measurable time-bound outcome-oriented targets set by the undertaking to meet the policy’s
objectives, defined in terms of expected results for people, the environment or the undertaking
regarding material impacts, risks and opportunities;
(c) the overall progress towards the adopted targets over time;
(d) in the case that the undertaking has not set measurable time-bound outcome-oriented targets,
whether and how it nevertheless tracks the effectiveness of its actions to address material impacts,
risks and opportunities and measures the progress in achieving its policy objectives; and
(e) whether and how stakeholders have been involved in target setting for each material sustainability
matter.
80. The undertaking shall disclose the measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material
sustainability matters it has set to assess progress. oor each target, the disclosure shall include the
following information:
(a) a description of the relationship of the target to the policy objectives;
(b) the defined target level to be achieved, including, where applicable, whether the target is absolute
or relative and in which unit it is measured;
(c) the scope of the target, including the undertaking’s activities and/or its upstream and/or downstream
value chain where applicable and geographical boundaries;
(d) the baseline value and base year from which progress is measured;
(e) the period to which the target applies and if applicable, any milestones or interim targets;
(f) the methodologies and significant assumptions used to define targets, including where applicable,
the selected scenario, data sources, alignment with national, EU or international policy goals and
how the targets consider the wider context of sustainable development and/or local situation in which
impacts take place;
(g) whether the undertaking’s targets related to environmental matters are based on conclusive scientific
evidence;
(h) whether and how stakeholders have been involved in target setting for each material sustainability
matter;
(i) any changes in targets and corresponding metrics or underlying measurement methodologies,
significant assumptions, limitations, sources and processes to collect data adopted within the defined
16
time horizon. This includes an explanation of the rationale for those changes and their effect on
comparability (see Disclosure
Requirement BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances of this Standard); and
(j) the performance against its disclosed targets, including information on how the target is monitored
and reviewed and the metrics used, whether the progress is in line with what had been initially
planned, and an analysis of trends or significant changes in the performance of the undertaking
towards achieving the target.
81. If the undertaking has not set any measurable outcome-oriented targets:
(a) it may disclose whether such targets will be set and the timeframe for setting them, or the reasons
why the undertaking does not plan to set such targets;
(b) it shall disclose whether it nevertheless tracks the effectiveness of its policies and actions in relation
to the material sustainability-related impact, risk and opportunity, and if so:
i. any processes through which it does so;
ii. the defined level of ambition to be achieved and any qualitative or quantitative indicators it
uses to evaluate progress, including the base period from which progress is measured.
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 2 and has the same authority as other parts of the Standard.
1. Basis for preparation
Disclosure Requirement BP-1 – General basis for preparation of sustainability statements
AR 1. When describing to what extent the sustainability statement covers the undertaking’s upstream and
downstream value chain (see ESRS 1 section 5.1 Reporting undertaking and value chain), the undertaking
may distinguish between:
(a) the extent to which its materiality assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities extends to
its upstream and/or downstream value chain;
(b) the extent to which its policies, actions and targets extend to its value chain; and
(c) the extent to which it includes upstream and/or downstream value chain data when disclosing on
metrics.
Disclosure Requirement BP-2 – Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances
AR 2. The undertaking may disclose whether it relies on any European standards approved by the European
Standardisation System (ISO/IEC or CEN/CENELEC standards), as well as the extent to which data
and processes that are used for sustainability reporting purposes have been verified by an external
assurance provider and found to conform to the corresponding ISO/IEC or CEN/CENELEC standard.
2. Governance
17
Disclosure Requirement GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, management and supervisory
bodies
AR 3. In describing the role and responsibilities of the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies with regard to sustainability matters, the undertaking may specify:
(a) the aspects of sustainability over which oversight is exercised with regard to the
environmental, social and governance matters the undertaking may be facing,
including:
i. any assessment of and changes to sustainability-related aspects of the
undertaking’s strategy and business model;
ii. the identification and assessment of material risks, opportunities and impacts;
iii. related policies and targets, action plans and dedicated resources; and iv.
sustainability reporting;
(b) the form such oversight takes for each of the above aspects: i.e., information,
consultation or decision-making; and
(c) the way such oversight is organised and formalised, i.e., processes by which the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies engage with these aspects of
sustainability.
AR 4. In describing the undertaking’s organisation of governance regarding sustainability matters,
a description of complex governance structure may be complemented by their presentation in
the form of a diagram.
AR 5. The description of the level of expertise or access to expertise of the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies may be substantiated by illustrating the composition
of the bodies, including members on whom these bodies rely for expertise to oversee
sustainability matters, and how they leverage that expertise as a body. In the description,
the undertaking shall consider how the expertise and skills are relevant to the undertaking’s
material impacts, risks and opportunities and whether the bodies and/or its members have
access to other sources of expertise, such as specific experts and training and other
educational initiatives to update and develop sustainability-related expertise within these
bodies.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-2 – Information provided to and sustainability matters
addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies
AR 6. Depending on the undertaking’s structure, the administrative, management and supervisory bodies
may focus on overarching targets, while management focuses on the more detailed targets. In this
case, the undertaking may disclose how the governance bodies ensure that an appropriate mechanism
for performance monitoring is in place.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive
schemes
AR 7. oor listed undertakings, this Disclosure Requirement should be consistent with the remuneration report
prescribed in articles 9a and 9b of Directive 2007/36/EC on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders
in listed companies. Subject to the provisions of ESRS 1, paragraphs 119, 120 and 122, a listed
undertaking may make a reference to its remuneration report.
18
Disclosure Requirement GOV-4 – Statement on due diligence
AR 8. The mapping required by paragraph 30 may be presented in the form of a table, crossreferencing the core
elements of due diligence, for impacts on people and the environment, to the relevant disclosures in the
undertaking’s sustainability statement, as set out below.
AR 9. The undertaking may include additional columns to the table below to clearly identify those disclosures
that relate to impacts on people and/or the environment given that, in some cases, more than one
disclosure may provide information about the same due diligence step.
AR 10. The main references in the international instruments of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises to the core elements of the due
diligence process are listed in ESRS 1 chapter 4.
CORE ELEMENTS OF DUE DILIGENCE
PARAGRAPHS IN THE
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
a) Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and
business model
b) Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the
due diligence
c) Identifying and assessing adverse impacts
d) Taking actions to address those adverse impacts
e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and
communicating
Disclosure Requirement GOV-5 – Risk management and internal controls over sustainability
reporting
AR 11. This Disclosure Requirement focuses solely on the internal control processes over the sustainability
reporting process. The undertaking may consider risks such as the completeness and integrity of the data, the
accuracy of estimation results, the availability of upstream and/or downstream value chain data, and the timing
of the availability of the information.
3. Strategy
Disclosure Requirement SBM–1 Strategy, business model and value chain
AR 12. To provide the information on sectors required by paragraph 40, the undertaking shall map its significant
activities in accordance with ESRS sectors. If a code for a sub-sector does not exist, the caption “others”
shall be used.
AR 13. oor the purposes of the disclosures required in paragraph 40, a group of products and/or services offered,
a group of markets and/or customer groups served, or an ESRS sector, is significant for the undertaking
if it meets one or both of the following criteria:
(a) it accounts for more than 10 per cent of the undertaking’s revenue;
19
(b) it is connected with material actual impacts or material potential negative impacts of the
undertaking.
AR 14. In preparing disclosures relating to its business model and value chain, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) its key activities, resources, distribution channels and customer segments;
(b) its key business relationships and their key characteristics, including relationships with
customers and suppliers;
(c) the cost structure and revenue of its business segments, in line with IoRS 8 disclosure
requirements in the financial statement, where applicable;
(d) the potential impacts, risks and opportunities in its significant sector(s) and their possible
relationship to its own business model or value chain.
AR 15. Contextual information may be particularly relevant for users of the undertaking’s sustainability
statement, to understand to what extent the disclosures include upstream and/or downstream value
chain information. The description of the main features of the upstream and/or downstream value chain
and where applicable the identification of key value chains should support an understanding of how the
undertaking applies the requirements of ESRS 1 chapter 5 and the materiality assessment performed
by the undertaking in line with ESRS 1 chapter 3. The description may provide a high-level overview of
the key features of upstream and/or downstream value chain entities indicating their relative contribution
to the undertaking’s performance and position and explaining how they contribute to the value creation
of the undertaking.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 16. The views and interests of stakeholders that are expressed as part of the undertaking’s engagement
with stakeholders through its due diligence process may be relevant to one or more aspects of its
strategy or business model. As such, they may affect the undertaking’s decisions regarding the future
direction of the strategy or business model.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their
interaction with strategy and business model
AR 17. When describing where in its upstream and/or downstream value chain material impacts, risks and
opportunities are concentrated, the undertaking shall consider: geographical areas, facilities or types of assets,
inputs, outputs and distribution channels.
AR 18. This disclosure may be expressed in terms of a single impact, risk or opportunity or by aggregating
groups of material impacts, risks and opportunities, when this provides more relevant information and
does not obscure material information.
4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement IRO-2 – Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the
undertaking’s sustainability statement
AR 19. Notwithstanding the basis for the presentation of the information about sustainability matters included
in ESRS 1 chapter 8 Structure of sustainability statement, the undertaking may disclose the list of the
Disclosure Requirements complied with in preparing the sustainability statement (see paragraph 54)
in the general information part or in other parts of the sustainability statement as it deems appropriate.
The undertaking may use a content index, i.e., a tabular list of the Disclosure Requirements included in
the sustainability statement, with the indication of where they are located (page/paragraphs).
20
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to manage material
sustainability matters
AR 20. Due to the interdependency between impacts on people and the environment, risks and opportunities,
a single policy may apply to several material sustainability matters, including matters addressed by
more than one topical ESRS. oor example, if a single policy covers both an environmental matter and
a social matter, the undertaking may report on the policy in the environmental section of its
sustainability statement. In this case, it should include in the social section a cross-reference to the
environmental section where the policy is reported. Equally a policy may be reported in the social section
with a cross-reference to it in the environmental section.
AR 21. The description of the scope of the policy may explain which activities and/or segments of the
undertaking’s own operations or upstream and downstream value chain it concerns. The description
may also explain further boundaries relevant to the specific topic or the undertaking’s circumstances,
which may include geographies, life cycles, etc. In certain cases, such as if the policy does not cover
the full value chain, the undertaking may provide clear information regarding the extent of the value
chain covered by the policy.
Minimum disclosure requirement – Actions MDR-A – Actions and resources in relation to
material sustainability matters
AR 22. Key actions in the context of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement are those actions that materially
contribute to achieving the undertaking’s objectives in addressing material impacts, risks and
opportunities. oor reasons of understandability, key actions may be aggregated where appropriate.
AR 23. Information on resource allocation may be presented in the form of a table and broken down between
capital expenditure and operating expenditure, and across the relevant time horizons, and between
resources applied in the current reporting year and the planned allocation of resources over specific
time horizons.
5. Metrics and targets
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and
actions through targets
AR 24. When disclosing targets related to the prevention or mitigation of environmental impacts, the undertaking
shall prioritise targets related to the reduction of the impacts in absolute terms rather than in relative
terms. When targets address the prevention or mitigation of social impacts, they may be specified in
terms of the effects on human rights, welfare or positive outcomes for affected stakeholders.
AR 25. The information on progress made towards achieving the targets may be presented in a comprehensive
table, including information on the baseline and target value, milestones, and achieved performance
over the prior periods.
AR 26. Where the undertaking describes progress in achieving the objectives of a policy in the absence of a
measurable target, it may specify a baseline against which the progress is considered. oor example,
the undertaking may assess an increase of wages by a certain percentage for those below a fair wage;
or may assess the quality of its relationships with local communities by reference to the proportion of
issues raised by communities that were resolved to their satisfaction. The baseline and the assessment
of the progress shall be related to the impacts, risks and opportunities which underpin the materiality
of the matter addressed by the policy.
21
Appendix B: List of datapoints in cross-cutting and topical standards that derive from
other EU legislation
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS 2. The table below illustrates the datapoints in ESRS 2 and topical
ESRS that derive from other EU legislation.
Disclosure SFDR9 reference Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference Regulation10 Climate Law11
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Indicator number 13 Commission
Board's gender of Table #1 of Delegated
diversity Annex 1
Regulation (EU)
paragraph 21 (d)
2020/181612,
Annex II
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Delegated
Percentage of board Regulation (EU)
members who are 2020/1816,
independent Annex II
paragraph 21 (e)
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS 2 GOV-4 Indicator number 10
Statement on due Table #3 of Annex 1
diligence
paragraph 30
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Indicators number 4 Article 449a Delegated
Involvement in Table Regulation Regulation (EU)
activities
#1 of Annex 1 (EU) No 2020/1816,
related to fossil
575/2013; Annex II
fuel activities
paragraph 40 (d) i
Commission
Implementing
Regulation
(EU)
2022/245313Ta
ble 1:
Qualitative
information on
Environmental
risk and Table
2: Qualitative
information on
9 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability‐related disclosures in
the financial services sector (Sustainable oinance Disclosures Regulation) (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1). 24 Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and
amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (Capital Requirements Regulation “CRR”) (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
10 Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial
instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and
2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1).
11 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the framework for achieving
climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 2018/1999 (‘European Climate Law’) (OJ L 243, 9.7.2021, p. 1).
12 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European
Parliament and of the Council as regards the explanation in the benchmark statement of how environmental, social and governance factors
are reflected in each benchmark provided and published (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 1).
13 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 of 30 November 2022 amending the implementing technical standards laid down in
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/637 as regards the disclosure of environmental, social and governance risks (OJ L 324,19.12.2022, p.1.).
22
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
Social risk
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Indicator number 9 Delegated
Involvement in Table #2 of Annex 1 Regulation (EU)
activities related 2020/1816,
to chemical Annex II
production
paragraph 40 (d) ii
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Indicator number 14 Delegated
Involvement in Table #1 of Annex 1 Regulation (EU)
activities related
2020/181814,
to
Article 12(1)
controversial
weapons Delegated
paragraph 40 (d) iii Regulation (EU)
2020/1816,
Annex II
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Delegated
Involvement in
Regulation (EU)
activities
2020/1818,
related to cultivation
Article 12(1)
and production of
tobacco Delegated
paragraph 40 (d) iv Regulation (EU)
2020/1816,
Annex II
ESRS E1-1 Regulation (EU)
Transition plan to 2021/1119,
reach climate Article 2(1)
neutrality by 2050
paragraph 14
ESRS E1-1 Article 449a Delegated
Undertakings excluded Regulation Regulation (EU)
from Paris-aligned (EU) No 2020/1818,
14 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament
and of the Council as regards minimum standards for EU Climate Transition Benchmarks and EU Parisaligned Benchmarks (OJ L 406,
3.12.2020, p. 17).
23
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
Benchmarks 575/2013; Article12.1 (d) to
paragraph 16 (g) Commission (g), and Article
Implementing 12.2
Regulation
(EU) 2022/2453
Template 1:
Banking
bookClimate
Change
transition risk:
Credit quality of
exposures by
sector,
emissions and
residual
maturity
ESRS E1-4 Indicator number 4 Article 449a Delegated
GHG emission Table #2 of Annex 1 Regulation Regulation (EU)
reduction targets (EU) No 2020/1818,
paragraph 34 575/2013; Article 6
Commission
Implementing
Regulation
(EU)
2022/2453
Template 3:
Banking book –
Climate change
transition risk:
alignment
metrics
ESRS E1-5 Indicator number 5
Energy Table #1 and
consumption from Indicator n. 5 Table
fossil #2 of Annex 1
sources disaggregated
by sources (only high
climate impact
sectors) paragraph 38
ESRS E1-5 Energy Indicator number 5
consumption and Table #1 of Annex 1
mix paragraph 37
ESRS E1-5 Indicator number 6
Energy intensity Table #1 of Annex 1
associated with
activities in high
climate impact
sectors paragraphs
40 to 43
24
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS E1-6 Indicators number 1 Article 449a; Delegated
Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and 2 Table #1 of Regulation Regulation (EU)
Annex 1
and Total GHG (EU) No 2020/1818,
emissions 575/2013; Article 5(1), 6
paragraph 44 Commission and 8(1)
Implementing
Regulation
(EU)
2022/2453
Template 1:
Banking book –
Climate change
transition risk:
Credit quality of
exposures by
sector,
emissions and
residual
maturity
ESRS E1-6 Indicators number 3 Article 449a Delegated
Gross GHG emissions Table Regulation Regulation (EU)
intensity #1 of Annex 1 (EU) No 2020/1818,
paragraphs 53 to 55 575/2013; Article 8(1)
Commission
Implementing
Regulation
(EU)
2022/2453
Template 3:
Banking book –
Climate change
transition risk:
alignment
metrics
ESRS E1-7 Regulation (EU)
GHG removals and 2021/1119,
carbon credits Article 2(1)
paragraph 56
ESRS E1-9 Delegated
Exposure of the Regulation (EU)
benchmark portfolio 2020/1818,
to climate-related Annex II
physical risks Delegated
paragraph 66 Regulation (EU)
2020/1816,
Annex II
25
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS E1-9 Article 449a
Disaggregation of Regulation
monetary (EU) No
amounts by acute 575/2013;
and chronic Commission
physical risk
Implementing
paragraph 66 (a)
Regulation
ESRS E1-9 (EU)
Location of 2022/2453
significant assets at paragraphs
46 and 47;
material physical risk
Template 5:
paragraph 66 (c).
Banking
book -
Climate
change
physical risk:
Exposures
subject to
physical risk.
ESRS E1-9 Article 449a
Breakdown Regulation
of the carrying value of
(EU) No
its real estate assets
575/2013;
by energy- Commission
efficiency classes Implementing
paragraph 67 (c). Regulation
(EU)
2022/2453
paragraph
34;Template
2:Banking book
-Climate
change
transition risk:
Loans
collateralised
by
immovable
property -
Energy
efficiency of the
collateral
ESRS E1-9 Delegated
Degree of exposure of Regulation (EU)
the portfolio to climate- 2020/1818,
related opportunities Annex II
paragraph 69
26
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS E2-4 Indicator number 8
Amount of each Table #1 of Annex
1 Indicator number
pollutant listed in
Annex II of the EPRTR 2 Table #2 of Annex
Regulation 1 Indicator number
(European Pollutant 1 Table #2 of Annex
Release and Transfer 1 Indicator number
Register) emitted to
3 Table #2 of Annex
air, water and soil,
1
paragraph 28
ESRS E3-1 Water and Indicator number 7
marine resources Table #2 of Annex 1
paragraph 9
ESRS E3-1 Indicator number 8
Dedicated policy Table 2 of Annex 1
paragraph 13
ESRS E3-1 Indicator number 12
Sustainable Table #2 of Annex
oceans and seas 1
paragraph 14
ESRS E3-4 Indicator number
Total water recycled 6.2 Table #2 of
and reused paragraph Annex 1
28 (c)
ESRS E3-4 Total Indicator number
water consumption 6.1 Table #2 of
in m3 per net Annex 1
revenue on own
operations
paragraph 29
ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 Indicator number 7
paragraph 16 (a) i Table #1 of Annex 1
ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 Indicator number 10
paragraph 16 (b) Table #2 of Annex
1
ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 Indicator number 14
paragraph 16 (c) Table #2 of Annex 1
ESRS E4-2 Indicator number 11
Sustainable land / Table #2 of Annex 1
agriculture practices
or policies paragraph
24 (b)
ESRS E4-2 Indicator number 12
Sustainable oceans / Table #2 of Annex
seas practices or 1
policies
paragraph 24 (c)
ESRS E4-2 Indicator number 15
Policies to Table #2 of Annex
address 1
deforestation
paragraph 24 (d)
27
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS E5-5 Indicator number 13
Non-recycled waste Table #2 of Annex
paragraph 37 (d) 1
ESRS E5-5 Indicator number 9
Hazardous waste Table #1 of Annex 1
and radioactive
waste paragraph 39
ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Indicator number 13
Risk of incidents Table #3 of Annex I
of forced labour
paragraph 14 (f)
ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Indicator number 12
Risk of incidents of Table #3 of Annex I
child labour
paragraph 14 (g)
ESRS S1-1 Indicator number 9
Human rights Table #3 and
policy Indicator number 11
commitments Table #1 of Annex I
paragraph 20
ESRS S1-1 Delegated
Due diligence Regulation (EU)
policies on issues 2020/1816,
addressed by the Annex II
fundamental
International Labor
Organisation
Conventions 1 to 8,
paragraph 21
ESRS S1-1 Indicator number 11
processes and Table #3 of Annex I
measures for
preventing
trafficking in human
beings paragraph 22
ESRS S1-1 Indicator number 1
workplace accident Table #3 of Annex I
prevention policy or
management
system paragraph
23
ESRS S1-3 Indicator number 5
grievance/complaints Table #3 of Annex I
handling
mechanisms
paragraph 32 (c)
ESRS S1-14 Indicator number 2 Delegated
Number of fatalities Table #3 of Annex I Regulation (EU)
and number and rate 2020/1816,
of work-related Annex II
accidents paragraph
88 (b) and (c)
28
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
ESRS S1-14 Indicator number 3
Number of days lost to Table #3 of Annex I
injuries, accidents,
fatalities or illness
paragraph 88 (e)
ESRS S1-16 Indicator number 12 Delegated
Unadjusted Table #1 of Annex I Regulation (EU)
gender pay gap 2020/1816,
paragraph 97 (a) Annex II
ESRS S1-16 Indicator number 8
Excessive CEO Table #3 of Annex I
pay ratio
paragraph 97
(b)
ESRS S1-17 Indicator number 7
Incidents of Table #3 of Annex I
discrimination
paragraph 103
(a)
ESRS S1-17 Indicator number 10 Delegated
Nonrespect of UNGPs Table #1 and Regulation (EU)
on Business and Indicator n. 14 2020/1816,
Human Rights and Table #3 of Annex I Annex II
OECD Delegated
paragraph 104 (a) Regulation (EU)
2020/1818 Art 12
(1)
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Indicators number
Significant risk of child 12 and n. 13 Table
labour or forced #3 of Annex I
labour in the value
chain paragraph 11
(b)
ESRS S2-1 Indicator number 9
Human rights Table #3 and
policy Indicator n. 11
commitments Table #1 of Annex
paragraph 17 1
ESRS S2-1 Policies Indicator number 11
related to value and n. 4 Table #3 of
chain workers Annex 1
paragraph 18
ESRS S2- Indicator number Delegated
1Nonrespect of 10 Regulation (EU)
UNGPs on Table #1 of Annex 2020/1816,
Business and 1 Annex II
Human Rights Delegated
principles and OECD Regulation (EU)
guidelines 2020/1818, Art
29
Disclosure SFDR23 Pillar 324 Benchmark EU
Requirement and reference reference Regulation25 Climate Law26
related datapoint reference reference
paragraph 19 12 (1)
ESRS S2-1 Delegated
Due diligence Regulation (EU)
policies on issues 2020/1816,
addressed by the Annex II
fundamental
International Labor
Organisation
Conventions 1 to 8,
paragraph 19
ESRS S2-4 Indicator number 14
Human rights Table #3 of Annex
issues and 1
incidents
connected to its
upstream and
downstream value
chain
paragraph 36
ESRS S3-1 Indicator number 9
Human rights policy Table #3 of Annex 1
commitments and Indicator
paragraph 16 number 11 Table #1
of Annex 1
ESRS S3-1 non- Indicator number 10 Delegated
respect of UNGPs on Table #1 Annex 1 Regulation (EU)
Business and Human 2020/1816,
Rights, ILO principles Annex II
or and OECD Delegated
guidelines paragraph Regulation (EU)
17 2020/1818, Art
12 (1)
ESRS S3-4 Indicator number 14
Human rights Table #3 of Annex 1
issues and
incidents paragraph
36
ESRS S4-1 Policies Indicator number 9
related to Table #3 and
Indicator number 11
consumers and end-
Table #1 of Annex
users paragraph 16
1
ESRS S4-1 Indicator number 10 Delegated
Non-respect of UNGPs Table #1 of Annex 1 Regulation (EU)
on Business and 2020/1816,
Human Rights and Annex II
OECD guidelines Delegated
paragraph 17 Regulation (EU)
2020/1818, Art
12 (1)
30
ESRS S4-4 Indicator number 14
Human rights Table #3 of Annex
issues and 1
incidents paragraph
35
ESRS G1-1 Indicator number 15
United Nations Table #3 of Annex 1
Convention against
Corruption paragraph
10 (b)
ESRS G1-1 Indicator number 6
Protection of Table #3 of Annex 1
whistle- blowers
paragraph 10 (d)
ESRS G1-4 Indicator number 17 Delegated
oines for violation Table #3 of Annex Regulation (EU)
of anti-corruption 1 2020/1816,
and anti-bribery Annex II)
laws paragraph 24
(a)
ESRS G1-4 Indicator number 16
Standards of anti- Table #3 of Annex 1
corruption and
anti- bribery
paragraph 24 (b)
Appendix C: Disclosure and Application Requirements in Topical ESRS that are
applicable in conjunction with ESRS 2 General disclosures
This appendix is an integral part of ESRS 2 and has the same authority as the other parts of the standard. The
following table outlines the requirements in topical ESRS that need to be taken into account when reporting
against the Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2.
ESRS 2 Disclosure
Related ESRS paragraph
Requirement
GOV–1 The role of the ESRS G1 Business conduct (paragraph 5)
administrative, management and
supervisory bodies
GOV–3 Integration of ESRS E1 Climate change (paragraph 13)
sustainability-related
performance in incentive
schemes
SBM–2 Interests and views of ESRS S1 Own workforce (paragraph 12)
stakeholders ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain (paragraph 9)
ESRS S3 Affected communities (paragraph 7)
ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users (paragraph 8)
31
ESRS 2 Disclosure
Related ESRS paragraph
Requirement
SBM–3 Material impacts, risks ESRS E1 Climate Change (paragraphs 18 to 19)
and opportunities and their ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems (paragraph 16)
interaction with strategy and ESRS S1 Own workforce (paragraph 13 to 16)
business model ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain (paragraph 10 to 13)
ESRS S3 Affected communities (paragraph 8 to 11)
ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users (paragraph 9 to 12)
IRO-1 Description of the ESRS E1 Climate change (paragraph 20 to 21)
processes to identify and ESRS E2 Pollution (paragraph 11)
assess material impacts, risks ESRS E3 Water and marine resources (paragraph 8)
and opportunities ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems (paragraph 17 to 19)
ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy (paragraph 11)
ESRS G1 Business conduct (paragraph 6)
32