ESRS E3 WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES
Table of contents
Objective
Interaction with other ESRS
Disclosure requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2
IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine
resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities
o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources o
Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine
resources
Metrics and targets
o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources
o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption
o Disclosure Requirement E3-5 – Anticipated financial effects from water and marine
resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities
Appendix A: Application Requirements ESRS
2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2
IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine
resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities
o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources o
Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine
resources policies
Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and
marine resources o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption
o Disclosure Requirement E3-5 – Anticipated financial effects from water and marine
resources-related risks and opportunities
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify Disclosure Requirements which will enable users of
the sustainability statement to understand:
(a) how the undertaking affects water and marine resources, in terms of material positive
and negative actual or potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions to prevent or mitigate material actual
or potential negative impacts, to protect water and marine resources, also with reference
to reduction of water consumption, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) whether, how and to what extent the undertaking contributes to the European Green
Deal’s ambitions for fresh air, clean water, healthy soil and biodiversity, as well as to
the sustainability of the blue economy and fisheries sectors, taking account of the
following: Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council1 (EU
1 Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community
action in the field of water policy (Water Framework Directive) (OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1).
1
Water Framework Directive), Directive 2008/56/EC of the European Parliament and of
the Council2 (EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive), Directive 2014/89/EU of the
European Parliament and of the Council3 (EU Maritime Spatial Planning Directive), the
Sustainable Development Goals (in particular SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation and 14
Life below water), and respect of global environmental limits (e.g. biosphere integrity,
ocean acidification, freshwater use, and biogeochemical flows planetary boundaries);
(d) the plans and capacity of the undertaking to adapt its strategy and business model in
line with the promotion of sustainable water use based on long-term protection of
available water resources; protection of aquatic ecosystems and restoration of
freshwater and marine habitats;
(e) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities arising
from the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies on water and marine resources,
and how the undertaking manages them; and
(f) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of
material risks and opportunities arising from the undertaking’s impacts and
dependencies on water and marine resources.
2. This Standard sets out Disclosure Requirements related to water and marine resources. With
regard to “water”, this standard covers surface water and groundwater. It includes disclosure
requirements on water consumption in the undertaking’s activities, products and services, as
well as related information on water withdrawals and water discharges.
3. With regard to “marine resources”, this standard covers the extraction and use of such
resources, and associated economic activities.
Interaction with other ESRS
4. The topic of water and marine resources is closely connected to other environmental sub-
topics such as climate change, pollution, biodiversity and circular economy. Thus, to provide
a comprehensive overview of what could be material to water and marine resources, relevant
Disclosure Requirements are covered in other environmental ESRS as follows:
(a) ESRS E1 Climate change, which addresses, in particular, acute and chronic physical
risks which arise from water and ocean-related hazards caused or exacerbated by
climate change, including increasing water temperature, changing precipitation patterns
and types (rain, hail, snow/ice), precipitation or hydrological variability, ocean
acidification, saline intrusion, sea level rise, drought, high water stress, heavy
precipitation, flood and glacial lake outbursts;
(b) ESRS E2 Pollution, which addresses, in particular, the emissions to water, which
includes emissions to oceans, and the use and generation of microplastics;
(c) ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems, which addresses, in particular, the conservation
and sustainable use of and impact on freshwater aquatic ecosystems as well as the
oceans and seas; and
(d) ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy which addresses in particular waste
management including plastic, and the transition towards the extraction of
nonrenewable resources of wastewater; reduced use of plastic; and the recycling of
wastewater.
2 Directive 2008/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 establishing a framework for community
action in the field of marine environmental policy (Marine Strategy Framework Directive) (OJ L 164, 25.6.2008, p. 19).
3 Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial
planning (OJ L 257, 28.8.2014, p. 135).
2
5. The undertaking’s impacts on water and marine resources affect people and communities.
Material negative impacts on affected communities from water and marine resourcesrelated
impacts attributable to the undertaking are covered in ESRS S3 Affected communities.
6. This Standard should be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements and ESRS 2
General disclosures.
Disclosure requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
7. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with and reported alongside the
disclosures required by ESRS 2 chapter 4 Impact, risk and opportunity management.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to
identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and
opportunities
8. The undertaking shall describe the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities
and shall provide information on:
(a) whether and how the undertaking it has screened its assets and activities in order to
identify its actual and potential water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and
opportunities in its own operations and its upstream and downstream value chain, and
if so the methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening;
(b) whether and how it has conducted consultations, in particular, with affected
communities4.
Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources
9. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts, risks
and opportunities related to water and marine resources5.
10. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to
which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management
and/or remediation of its material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and
opportunities.
11. The disclosure required by paragraph 9 shall contain the information on the policies the
undertaking has in place to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to
water and marine resources in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage
material sustainability matters.
4 Source: IFC Performance Standard 6, 2012.
5 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because
it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #7 in Table II of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Investments in companies without water management policies”).
3
12. The undertaking shall indicate whether and how its policies address the following matters
where material:
(a) water management including:
i. the use and sourcing of water and marine resources in its own
operations; ii. water treatment as a step towards more sustainable sourcing of
water; and iii. the prevention and abatement of water pollution resulting from
its activities.
(b) product and service design in view of addressing water-related issues and the
preservation of marine resources; and
(c) commitment to reduce material water consumption in areas at water risk in its own
operations and along the upstream and downstream value chain.
13. If at least one of the sites of the undertaking is located in an area of high-water stress and it is
not covered by a policy, the undertaking shall state this to be the case and provide reasons for
not having adopted such a policy. The undertaking may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to
adopt such a policy.6
14. The undertaking shall specify whether it has adopted policies or practices related to
sustainable oceans and seas7.
Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine
resources
15. The undertaking shall disclose its water and marine resources-related actions and the
resources allocated to their implementation.
16. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the key actions
taken and planned to achieve the water and marine resources-related policy objectives and
targets.
17. The description of the actions and resources shall follow the principles defined in ESRS 2 MDR-
A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-
A, the undertaking may specify to which layer in the mitigation hierarchy an action and
18. Resources can be allocated to:
(a) avoid the use of water and marine resources;
(b) reduce the use of water and marine resources such as through efficiency measures;
(c) reclaiming and reuse of water; or
(d) restoration and regeneration of aquatic ecosystem and water bodies.
19. The undertaking shall specify actions and resources in relation to areas at water risk, including
areas of high-water stress.
6 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #8 in Table II of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Exposure to areas of high water stress”).
7 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #12 in Table II of
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (
“Investments in companies without sustainable oceans/seas practices”).
4
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources
20. The undertaking shall disclose the water and marine resources-related targets it has set.
21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the targets the
undertaking has adopted to support its water and marine resources-related policies and address
its material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities.
22. The description of the targets shall contain the information requirements defined in ESRS 2
MDR-T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets.
23. The disclosure required by paragraph 20 shall indicate whether and how its targets relate to:
(a) the management of material impacts, risks and opportunities related to areas at water
risk, including improvement of the water quality;
(b) the responsible management of marine resources impacts, risks and opportunities
including the nature and quantity of marine resources-related commodities (such as
gravels, deep-sea minerals, seafood) used by the undertaking; and
(c) the reduction of water consumption, including an explanation of how those targets relate
to areas at water risk, including areas of high water-stress.
24. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-T, the undertaking may specify whether ecological thresholds and
entity-specific allocations were taken into consideration when setting targets. If so, the
undertaking may specify:
(a) the ecological thresholds identified, and the methodology used to identify such thresholds;
(b) whether or not the thresholds are entity-specific and if so, how they were determined; and
(c) how responsibility for respecting identified ecological thresholds is allocated in the
undertaking.
25. The undertaking shall specify as part of the contextual information, whether the targets it has
set and presented are mandatory (required by legislation) or voluntary.
Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption
26. The undertaking shall disclose information on its water consumption performance related
to its material impacts, risks and opportunities.
27. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the undertaking’s
water consumption and any progress by the undertaking in relation to its targets.
28. The disclosure required by paragraph 26 relates to own operations and shall include:
(a) total water consumption in m3;
(b) total water consumption in m3 in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water
stress;
(c) total water recycled and reused in m3;8
8 This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #6.2 in Table II of
5
(d) total water stored and changes in storage in m3; and
(e) any contextual information necessary regarding points (a) to (d), including the water
basins’ water quality and quantity, how the data have been compiled, such as any
standards, methodologies, and assumptions used, including whether the information is
calculated, estimated, modelled, or sourced from direct measurements, and the approach
taken for this, such as the use of any sector-specific factors.
29. The undertaking shall provide information on its water intensity: total water consumption in
its own operations in m3 per million EUR net revenue76.
Disclosure Requirement E3-5 – Anticipated financial effects from material water and
marine resources-related risks and opportunities
30. The undertaking shall disclose the anticipated financial effects of material water and
marine resources-related risks and opportunities.
31. The information required by paragraph 30 is in addition to the information on current financial
effects on the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows for the reporting
period required under ESRS 2 SBM-3 para 48 (d).
32. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of:
(a) anticipated financial effects due to material risks arising from water and marine
resources-related impacts and dependencies and how these risks have (or could
reasonably be expected to have) a material influence on the undertaking’s financial
position, financial performance and cash flows, over the short-, medium- and long-term;
and
(b) anticipated financial effects due to material opportunities related to water and marine
resources.
33. The disclosure shall include:
(a) a quantification of the anticipated financial effects in monetary terms before considering
water and marine resources-related actions or where not possible without undue cost or
effort, qualitative information. For financial effects arising from opportunities, a
quantification is not required if it would result in disclosure that does not meet the
qualitative characteristics of information (see ESRS 1 Appendix B Qualitative
characteristics of information);
(b) a description of the effects considered, the impacts and dependencies to which they
relate, and the time horizons in which they are likely to materialise; and
(c) the critical assumptions used to quantify the anticipated financial effects, as well as the
sources and level of uncertainty of those assumptions.
Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 regarding disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Water
usage and recycling”, 2. Weighted average percentage of water recycled and reused by investee companies). 76 This
information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it
is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #6.1 in Table II of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Water usage
and recycling”, 1. Average amount of water consumed by the investee companies (in cubic meters) per million EUR of revenue
of investee companies).
6
Appendix A: Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS E3. It supports the application of the disclosure
requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to
identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and
opportunities
AR 1. When conducting a materiality assessment on environmental subtopics, the undertaking
shall assess the materiality of water and marine resources in its own operations and its
upstream and downstream value chain, and may consider the four phases below, also known
as the LEAP approach:
(a) Phase 1: locate where in its own operations and along the value chain the interface
with nature takes place;
(b) Phase 2: evaluate the dependencies and impacts;
(c) Phase 3: assess the material risks and opportunities; and
(d) Phase 4: prepare and report the results of the materiality assessment.
AR 2. The materiality assessment for ESRS E3 corresponds to the first three phases of this LEAP
approach, the fourth phase addresses the outcome of the process.
AR 3. The processes to assess the materiality of impacts, risks and opportunities shall consider
the provisions in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material
impacts, risks and opportunities, and IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by
the undertaking’s sustainability statement.
AR 4. The sub-topics related to water and marine resources covered by the materiality assessment
include:
(a) water, which encompasses the consumption of surface water, groundwater, as well
as withdrawals and discharges of water; and
(b) marine resources, which encompasses the extraction and use of such resources and
associated economic activities.
AR 5. In phase 1, to locate where there are areas at water risk, and areas where there is an
interface with marine resources that could lead to material impacts and dependencies in
its own operations and along its upstream and downstream value chain, the undertaking
may consider:
(a) the locations of direct assets and operations and related upstream and downstream
activities across the value chain;
(b) the sites located in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress; and
(c) the sectors or business units that are interfacing with water or marine resources in these
priority locations.
AR 6. The undertaking shall consider river basins as the relevant level for assessment of locations
and combine that approach with an operational risk assessment of its facilities and the
facilities of suppliers with material impacts and risks.
7
AR 7. The undertaking shall consider the criteria for defining the status of water bodies according
to the relevant Annexes of Directive 2000/60/EC (Water Framework Directive) as well as the
guidance documents provided for implementation of the Water Framework Directive. The list
of guidance documents can be accessed under the European Commission’s Environment
home page.
AR 8. In phase 2, to evaluate its impacts and dependencies for each priority location identified under
AR 5, the undertaking may:
(a) identify business processes and activities that lead to impacts and dependencies on
environmental assets and ecosystem services;
(b) identify water and marine resources-related impacts and dependencies across the
undertaking’s value chain; and
(c) assess the severity and likelihood of the positive and negative impacts on water and
marine resources.
AR 9. For the identification of water and marine resources-related dependencies, the undertaking
may rely on international classifications such as the Common International Classification of
Ecosystem Services (CICES).
AR 10. When identifying its marine resources-related dependencies, the undertaking shall consider
if it depends upon key marine resources-related commodities, including but not limited to
gravels and seafood products.
AR 11. Marine resources are defined according to their use by human societies and must be
considered in relation to the pressure they are subject to. Some of the pressure indicators
are presented in other ESRS, namely microplastics and emissions to water in ESRS E2 and
plastic waste in ESRS E5.
AR 12. Examples of marine resources dependencies which may be considered by the undertaking
are:
(a) dependencies on commercially exploited fish and shellfish in its own operations and its
upstream and downstream value chain; and
(b) fishing activity that involves mobile bottom trawling, which can also have negative impacts
on the seabed.
AR 13. In Phase 3, to assess its material risks and opportunities based on the results of Phases 1
and 2, the undertaking may :
(a) identify transition risks and opportunities in its own operations and its value chain
by the categories of:
i. policy and legal: e.g., introduction of regulation or policy (e.g., changes such as
increased water protection, increased quality of water regulations, regulation of
flows of water supply), ineffective governance of water bodies or marine
resources, in particular across boundaries (e.g., transboundary governance and
cooperation) resulting in water or oceans degradation, exposure to sanctions and
litigation (e.g., non-respect of permits or allocations; negligence towards or killing
of threatened marine species), enhanced reporting obligations on marine
ecosystems and related services;
ii. technology: e.g., substitution of products or services by products or services with
a lower impact on water and marine resources, transition to more efficient and
cleaner technologies (i.e., with lower impacts on oceans and water), new
monitoring technologies (e.g., satellite), water purification, flood protection;
iii. market: e.g., shifting supply, demand and financing, volatility or increased costs of
water or marine resources;
iv. reputation: e.g., changing societal, customer or community perceptions as a result
of an organisation’s impact on water and marine resources; and
v. contribution to systemic risks via its own operations and its upstream and
downstream value chain, including the risks that a marine ecosystem collapses or
8
the risks that a critical natural system no longer functions (e.g., tipping points are
reached, summing physical risks);
(b) identify physical risk including water quantity (water scarcity, water stress), water
quality, infrastructure decay or unavailability of some marine resources-related
commodities (e.g. the rarefaction of some species of fish or other underwater marine
living organisms sold as products by the undertaking) leading for instance to the
impossibility of running operations in certain geographical areas; (c) identify
opportunities categorised by:
i. resource efficiency: e.g., transition to more efficient services and processes
requiring less water and marine resources;
ii. markets: e.g., development of less resource-intense products and services,
diversification of business activities;
iii. financing: e.g., access to green funds, bonds or loans; iv. resilience: e.g.,
diversification of marine or water resources and business activities (e.g., starting
a new business unit on ecosystem restoration), investing in green
infrastructures, nature-based solutions, adopting recycling and circularity
mechanisms that reduce the dependencies on water or marine resources; and
v. reputation: positive stakeholder engagement as a result of a proactive stance on
managing nature-related risks (e.g., leading to preferred partner status).
AR 14. The undertaking may rely on primary, secondary or modelled data collection or other relevant
approaches to assess material impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities, including
Commission Recommendation 2021/2279 on the use of the Environmental Footprint
methods to measure and communicate the life cycle environmental performance of products
and organisations (Annex I – Product Environmental Footprint; Annex III – Organisation
Environmental Footprint).
AR 15. When providing information on the outcome of the materiality assessment, the undertaking
shall consider:
(a) a list of geographical areas where water is a material issue for the undertaking’s own
operations and its upstream and downstream value chain;
(b) a list of marine resources-related commodities used by the undertaking which are
material to the good environmental status of marine waters as well as for the protection
of marine resources; and
(c) a list of sectors or segments associated with water and marine resources material
impacts, risks and opportunities.
Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources
AR 16. The policies described under this Disclosure Requirement may be integrated in broader
environmental or sustainability policies covering different subtopics.
AR 17. When disclosing information under paragraph 9, the undertaking may disclose whether its
policies :
(a) prevent further deterioration and protect and enhance the status of water bodies and
aquatic ecosystems;
(b) promote sustainable water use based on a long-term protection of available water
resources;
(c) aim at enhanced protection and improvement of the aquatic environment;
(d) promote a good environmental status of marine water; and
9
(e) promote reduction of water withdrawals and water discharges.
AR 18. The undertaking may also disclose information about policies which:
(a) contribute to good ecological and chemical quality of surface water bodies and good
chemical quality and quantity of groundwater bodies, in order to protect human health,
water supply, natural ecosystems and biodiversity, the good environmental status of
marine waters and the protection of the resource base upon which marine related
activities depend;
(b) minimise material impacts and risks and implement mitigation measures that aim to
maintain the value and functionality of priority services and to increase resource
efficiency on own operations; and (c) avoid impacts on affected communities.
Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine
resources policies
AR 19. When disclosing information required under paragraph 15, the undertaking shall consider the
actions, or action plans, contributing to address the material impacts, risks and opportunities
identified. Useful guidance is provided by the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS).
AR 20. Considering that water and marine resources are shared resources which may require
collective actions, or action plans, involving other stakeholders, the undertaking may provide
information on those specific collective actions, including information on other parties
(competitors, suppliers, retailers, customers, other business partners, local communities and
authorities, government agencies…) and specific information on the project, its specific
contribution, its sponsors and other participants.
AR 21. When providing information on capital expenditures, the undertaking may consider
expenditures related, for example, to stormwater drain rehabilitation, pipelines, or machinery
used to manufacture new low water-use products.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources
AR 22. If the undertaking refers to ecological thresholds when setting targets, it may refer to the
guidance provided by the Science-Based Targets Initiative for Nature (SBTN) in its interim
guidance (Initial Guidance for Business, September 2020). It may also refer to any other
guidance with a scientifically acknowledged methodology that enables the setting of science-
based targets by identifying ecological thresholds and, if applicable, organisationspecific
allocations. Ecological thresholds can be local, national and/or global.
AR 23. The undertaking may provide targets relating to:
(a) the reduction of water withdrawals; and (b)
the reduction of water discharges.
AR 24. If the undertaking provides targets on withdrawals, it may include water withdrawal from
polluted soils and aquifers, and water withdrawn and treated for remediation purposes.
AR 25. If the undertaking provides targets on discharges, it may include water discharges to
groundwater such as reinjection to aquifers, or water returning to a groundwater source via
a soakaway or a swale.
10
AR 26. The targets may cover its own operations and/or its upstream and downstream value chain.
AR 27. The undertaking may specify whether the target addresses shortcomings related to the
Substantial Contribution criteria for Water and Marine Resources as defined in the
Commission delegated acts adopted pursuant to Article 12(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
Where the Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria for Water and Marine Resources as
defined in delegated acts adopted pursuant to Article 10(3), Article 11(3), Article 13(2), Article
14(2), and Article 15(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 are not met, the undertaking may specify
whether the target addresses shortcomings related those DNSH criteria.
Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption
AR 28. The undertaking may operate in various areas at water risk. When disclosing information
under paragraph 28 (b), the undertaking shall include such information only for those areas
that have been identified as material in accordance with ESRS2 IRO-1 and ESRS2 SBM-3.
AR 29. When disclosing contextual information on water consumption performance required by
paragraph 26, the undertaking shall explain the calculation methodologies and more
specifically the share of the measure obtained from direct measurement, from sampling and
extrapolation, or from best estimates.
AR 30. The undertaking may provide information on other breakdowns (i.e., per sector or segments).
AR 31. When disclosing information required by paragraph 29 the undertaking may provide additional
intensity ratios based on other denominators.
AR 32. The undertaking may also provide information on its water withdrawals and water
discharges.
Disclosure Requirement E3-5 – Anticipated financial effects from material water and
marine resources-related risks and opportunities
AR 33. The undertaking may include an assessment of its related products and services at risk over
the short-, medium- and long-term, explaining how these are defined, how financial amounts
are estimated, and which critical assumptions are made.
AR 34. The quantification of the anticipated financial effects in monetary terms under paragraph
39(a) may be a single amount or a range.
11