European Commission - Questions and answers
Questions and Answers on the Adoption of European Sustainability
Reporting Standards
Brussels, 31 July 2023
Why is the Commission adopting European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS)?
EU law requires all large companies and all listed companies (except listed micro-enterprises) to
disclose information on what they see as the risks and opportunities arising from social and
environmental issues, and on the impact of their activities on people and the environment. This helps
investors, civil society organisations, consumers and other stakeholders to evaluate the sustainability
performance of companies, as part of the European green deal.
Nonetheless, there is ample evidence that the sustainability information that companies currently
report is not sufficient. They often omit information that investors and other stakeholders think is
important. Reported information can be hard to compare from company to company, and users of the
information, such as investors, are often unsure whether they can trust it.
Problems in the quality of sustainability reporting have knock-on effects. It means that investors lack
a reliable overview of sustainability-related risks to which companies are exposed. Investors
increasingly should be made aware about the impact of companies on people and the environment
and their plans to reduce such impacts in the future. This knowledge will help them to meet their
own disclosure requirements under the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR). More
generally, if the market for green investments is to be credible, investors need to know about the
sustainability impact of the companies in which they invest. Without such information, money cannot
be channelled towards environmentally friendly activities.
That is why, in line with the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which outlines the
obligation for companies to use standards to fulfil their legal sustainability reporting obligations, the
Commission is adopting common standards which will help companies to communicate and
manage their sustainability performance more efficiently and therefore to have better access to
sustainable finance.
The European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) will be mandatory for use by companies
that are obliged by the Accounting Directive to report certain sustainability information. By requiring
the use of common standards, the Accounting Directive, as amended by the CSRD in 2022, aims to
ensure that companies across the EU report comparable and reliable sustainability information.
Common standards are expected to help companies to reduce reporting costs in the medium and
long term, by avoiding the use of multiple voluntary standards as this is the case today. Currently,
problems in the quality of sustainability reporting create an accountability gap. High quality and
reliable public reporting by companies will help create a culture of greater public accountability.
How have the ESRS been developed?
In accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Directive, as amended by the CSRD, the
standards adopted by the Commission are based on technical advice (draft standards) from EFRAG.
EFRAG (previously known as the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group) is an independent,
multistakeholder advisory body, majority funded by the EU. Its draft standards are developed with
the close involvement of investors, companies, auditors, civil society, trade unions, academics and
national standard-setters.
EFRAG submitted its draft standards to the Commission in November 2022, after having run a public
consultation on initial draft standards earlier last year. Further to that consultation, EFRAG made
substantial modifications to its initial drafts before submission to the Commission with a particular
view on reducing administrative burden for companies, including reducing the number of reporting
requirements by nearly half.
Earlier this year, as required by the Accounting Directive, the Commission consulted Member States
on the draft standards submitted by EFRAG, along with various EU bodies such as the 3 European
Supervisory Authorities (the European Securities and Markets Authority, the European Banking
Authority and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority),the European
Environment Agency, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the European Central
Bank, the Committee of European Auditing Oversight Bodies and the Platform on Sustainable
Finance.
In accordance with its Better Regulation Guidelines, the Commission also published the proposed
final ESRS on the Have Your Say portal in early June for a 4-week period of public comment.
What will companies have to report?
As required by the Accounting Directive, as amended by the CSRD, the ESRS take a “double
materiality” perspective – that is to say, they oblige companies to report both on their impacts on
people and the environment, and on how social and environmental issues create financial risks and
opportunities for the company.
There are 12 ESRS, covering the full range of sustainability issues, in line with EFRAG's proposal:
Group Number Subject
Cross- ESRS 1 General Requirements
cutting
Cross- ESRS 2 General Disclosures
cutting
Environment ESRS E1 Climate
Environment ESRS E2 Pollution
Environment ESRS E3 Water and marine
resources
Environment ESRS E4 Biodiversity and
ecosystems
Environment ESRS E5 Resource use and circular
economy
Social ESRS S1 Own workforce
Social ESRS S2 Workers in the value
chain
Social ESRS S3 Affected communities
Social ESRS S4 Consumers and end users
Governance ESRS G1 Business conduct
ESRS 1 (“General Requirements”) sets general principles to be applied when reporting according to
ESRS and does not itself set specific disclosure requirements. ESRS 2 (“General Disclosures”)
specifies essential information to be disclosed irrespective of which sustainability matter is being
considered. ESRS 2 is mandatory for all companies under the CSRD scope.
All the other standards and the individual disclosure requirements and datapoints within them are
subject to a materiality assessment. This means that the company will report only relevant
information and may omit the information in question that is not relevant (“material”) for its
business model and activity.
Disclosure requirements subject to materiality are not voluntary. The information in question must
be disclosed if it is material, and the undertaking's materiality assessment process is subject to
external assurance in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Directive. The standards
require undertakings to perform a robust materiality assessment to ensure that all sustainability
information necessary to meet the objectives and requirements of the Accounting Directive will be
disclosed.
If a company concludes that climate change is not a material topic and therefore does not report in
accordance with that standard, it has to provide a detailed explanation of the conclusions of its
materiality assessment with regard to climate change. This requirement reflects the fact that climate
change has wide-ranging and systemic impacts across the economy.
What modifications did the Commission make compared to the draft standards developed
by EFRAG?
The Commission made a number of modifications to the draft standards submitted by EFRAG. These
modifications ensure that the standards are proportionate, without undermining the achievement of
the policy objectives. The modifications fall into three main categories: phasing-in certain reporting
requirements; giving companies more flexibility to decide exactly what information is relevant
(“material”) in their circumstances; and making some of the proposed requirements voluntary.
Firstly, the Commission has introduced some additional phase-in provisions for some of the
reporting requirements, on top of certain phase-in provisions already proposed by EFRAG. These
additional phase-ins mainly apply to companies with fewer than 750 employees. The costs of
reporting are relatively higher for such companies compared to larger companies, and they have
generally not previously been subject to sustainability requirements. The additional phase-in
provisions give companies more time to prepare, allow them to spread the initial costs over a
number of years and should result in higher quality reporting. The additional phase-ins focus on
those reporting requirements considered more challenging for companies. They include certain
reporting requirements on biodiversity and on various social issues. Depending on the topic, the new
phase-in provisions postpone the corresponding reporting requirement for 1 or 2 years for the
companies concerned.
Secondly, the Commission has given companies more flexibility to decide exactly what information
is relevant in their particular circumstances. This will avoid the costs associated with reporting
information that may not be relevant. This is referred to as making more of the reporting
requirements “subject to materiality” (i.e. it allows companies to omit information if it is not relevant
in their particular circumstances), as opposed to being mandatory for all companies.
EFRAG proposed that the majority of the standards would be subject to materiality assessment, but
nevertheless proposed that the following be mandatory for all companies: the cross-cutting standard
ESRS 2 (“General Disclosures”), which specifies essential information to be disclosed irrespective of
which sustainability matter is being considered; the climate standard; some reporting requirements
about the company's own workforce; and datapoints that correspond to information required by
financial market participants, benchmark administrators and financial institutions for their own
reporting purposes respectively under the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), the
Benchmarks Regulation (BMR) or the “pillar 3” disclosure requirements under the Capital
Requirements Regulation (CRR). The Commission decided that all the reporting requirements should
be subject to materiality, with the exception of ESRS 2.
Thirdly, the Commission made a limited number of reporting requirements voluntary instead of
mandatory. The draft standards submitted by EFRAG already included many voluntary datapoints.
The Commission further converted a number of the mandatory datapoints proposed by EFRAG into
voluntary datapoints. The datapoints concerned are those currently considered most challenging or
costly for companies, such as reporting a biodiversity transition plan and certain indicators about
self-employed people and agency workers in the undertaking's own workforce.
What does the approach to materiality mean for coherence with other pieces of EU
legislation on sustainable finance?
ESRS contain a series of clearly identified datapoints that correspond to specific information that
financial market participants, benchmark administrators and financial institutions need for their own
reporting purposes respectively under the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), the
Benchmark Regulation (BMR) or the “pillar 3” disclosure requirements under the Capital
Requirements Regulation (CRR).
If a company concludes that a datapoint deriving from the SFDR, the BMR or the CRR is not material,
it will have to explicitly state that the datapoint in question is “not material” rather than just
reporting no information. In addition, companies will have to provide a table with all such datapoints,
indicating where they are to be found in its sustainability statement or stating “not material” as
appropriate.
These provisions aim to facilitate the compliance of financial market participants, benchmarks
administrators and financial institutions with their own disclosure obligations respectively under the
SFDR, the BMR and the CRR.
Further clarifications will be provided under the respective frameworks or related implementing
standards regarding the approach to be taken when a company has assessed a datapoint derived
from the SFDR, the BMR or the CRR as not material and has therefore stated “not material” in its
reporting. Financial market participants and financial advisers may assume that any indicator
reported as non-material by an investee company does not contribute to the corresponding indicator
of principal adverse impacts in the context of the SFDR disclosures.
What about SMEs?
The Accounting Directive, as amended by the CSRD, imposes no new reporting requirements on
SMEs, except listed SMEs.
For listed SMEs, the Accounting Directive nevertheless provides for a proportionate reporting regime.
Listed SMEs are not required to report sustainability information until financial year 2026, with the
possibility of an additional two-year opt-out after that. In addition, listed SMEs may report according
to separate, proportionate standards that will be less demanding than the full set of ESRS that the
Commission has just adopted. EFRAG is currently developing the draft versions of the proportionate
standards for listed SMEs.
Some non-listed SMEs, which are not subject to any sustainability reporting requirements under the
Accounting Directive, may nevertheless receive requests for sustainability information from
customers, banks, investors or other stakeholders. EFRAG is therefore also developing simpler,
voluntary standards for use by non-listed SMEs. These voluntary standards should enable non-listed
SMEs to respond to request for sustainability information in an efficient and proportionate manner,
and so facilitate their participation in the transition to a sustainable economy.
In addition, the Accounting Directive states that the standards for listed SMEs will legally cap the
information which ESRS can require large undertakings to obtain from SMEs in their value chains.
This provision provides further safeguards against disproportionate trickle-down effects on reporting
requirements on SMEs which are in the value-chains of larger companies.
Where can companies get further guidance on the application of ESRS?
EFRAG will periodically publish additional non-binding technical guidance on the application of ESRS.
Given its expertise and its role, set out in the Accounting Directive as amended by the CSRD, as the
Commission's technical advisor on the development of ESRS, EFRAG is very well placed to provide
such guidance.
The Commission has suggested that EFRAG prioritises the development of guidance on materiality
assessment and on reporting with regard to value chains. EFRAG expects to publish draft guidance
on these two issues for public consultation in the near future.
EFRAG will shortly host a portal for technical questions that companies, or other stakeholders may
have about the application of ESRS.
Where appropriate, the Commission will consider providing guidance on questions concerning legal
interpretation of the ESRS.
EFRAG will continue its joint work with the ISSB on optimising the interoperability of overlapping
ESRS and ISSB standards, which is relevant for companies required to use ESRS and that wish to
comply in addition with ISSB standards.
Are ESRS aligned with global standards?
The Commission has worked to ensure a very high level of alignment between ESRS and the
standards of the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) and the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI).
From the beginning of the development of draft ESRS by EFRAG, the GRI served as an important
reference point, and many of the reporting requirements in ESRS were inspired by the GRI
standards.
The ESRS and the first two standards of the ISSB, which were published in June, have been
developed in parallel. Intensive and constructive discussions between the Commission, EFRAG and
the ISSB have ensured a very high degree of alignment where the two sets of standards overlap.
Companies that are required to report in accordance with ESRS on climate change will to a very large
extent report the same information as companies that will use the ISSB standard on climate-related
disclosures. Climate change disclosures under ESRS will provide additional information on impacts
relevant for users other than investors such as business partners, trade unions, social partners, and
academics.
The very high degree of alignment between ESRS and the two ISSB standards aim to prevent that
companies required to report in accordance with ESRS and that wish to also comply with ISSB
standards, would have to report separately under ISSB standards.
With the adoption of the ESRS, the EU goes further than any other major jurisdiction to date in terms
of integrating the ISSB standards into its own legal framework. In doing so, the EU makes a major
contribution towards the development of a coherent global framework and towards the global
comparability of reported sustainability information. The approach of integrating ISSB disclosure
requirements into ESRS is also fully in line with the ambition of the recent IOSCO decision to
endorse ISSB sustainability-related disclosure standards.
At the same time, ESRS are consistent with the EU's own political ambitions with regard to
sustainable finance and the European Green Deal. The ESRS contains topical standards covering the
full range of environmental, social and governance issues, while the ISSB has so far published a
detailed topical standard on climate only. In addition, and as required by the CSRD, ESRS explicitly
require reporting on the company's impacts on people and the environment as well as reporting on
how social and environmental issues create financial risks and opportunities for the company. The
ISSB standards, in contrast, focus more exclusively on how social and environmental issues create
financial risks and opportunities for the company.
What happens next and when do companies have to apply European Sustainability
Reporting Standards?
The ESRS delegated act adopted by the Commission will be formally transmitted in the second half
of August to the European Parliament and to the Council for scrutiny. The scrutiny period runs for
two months, extendable by a further two months. The European Parliament or the Council may reject
the delegated act, but they may not amend it.
Companies will have to start reporting under ESRS according to the following timetable:
Companies previously subject to the Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) (large listed
companies, large banks and large insurance undertakings – all if they have more than 500
employees), as well as large non-EU listed companies with more than 500 employees: financial
year 2024, with first sustainability statement published in 2025.
Other large companies, including other large non-EU listed companies: financial year 2025,
with first sustainability statement published in 2026.
Listed SMEs, including non-EU listed SMEs: financial year 2026, with first sustainability
statements published in 2027. However, listed SMEs may decide to opt out of the reporting
requirements for a further two years. The last possible date for a listed SME to start reporting
is financial year 2028, with first sustainability statement published in 2029.
In addition, non-EU companies that generate over EUR 150 million per year in the EU and that have
in the EU either a branch with a turnover exceeding EUR 40 million or a subsidiary that is a large
company or a listed SME will have to report on the sustainability impacts at the group level of that
non-EU company as from financial year 2028, with first sustainability statement published in 2029.
Separate standards will be adopted specifically for this case.
For more information
Implementing and delegated acts - CSRD
QANDA/23/4043
Press contacts:
Arianna PODESTA (+32 2 298 70 24)
Aikaterini APOSTOLA (+32 2 298 76 24)
General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email