VSME Basis for Conclusions
December 2024 Page 1 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
DISCLAIMER
Disclaimer
This Basis for Conclusions accompanies but is not part of the Voluntary standard for non-listed
micro-, small- and medium-sized undertakings (VSME). It summarises the considerations of the
EFRAG SR TEG and SRB used in developing the proposed contents of the Standard.
About EFRAG
EFRAG’s mission is to serve the European public interest in both financial and sustainability
reporting by developing and promoting European views in the field of corporate reporting.
EFRAG builds on and contributes to the progress in corporate reporting. In its sustainability
reporting activities, EFRAG provides technical advice to the European Commission in the form
of draft European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) elaborated under a robust due
process and supports the effective implementation of ESRS. EFRAG seeks input from all
stakeholders and obtains evidence about specific European circumstances throughout the
standard setting process. Its legitimacy is built on excellence, transparency, governance, due
process, public accountability and thought leadership. This enables EFRAG to speak
convincingly, clearly, and consistently, and be recognised as the European voice in corporate
reporting and a contributor to global progress in corporate reporting.
EFRAG is funded by the European Union through the Single Market Programme in which the
EEA-EFTA countries (Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein), as well as Kosovo participate. Any
views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily
reflect those of the European Union, the European Commission or of countries that participate
in the Single Market Programme. Neither the European Union, the European Commission nor
countries participating in the Single market Programme can be held responsible for them.
© 2024 EFRAG All rights reserved. Reproduction and use rights are strictly limited. For further details please contact
efragsecretariat@efrag.org
December 2024 Page 2 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Table of contents
Introduction and key steps of EFRAG due process 4
EFRAG SRB approval (13 November 2024) 5
EFRAG SR TEG approval (22 October 2024) 6
Meetings since the end of the public consultation (From May to November 2024) 6
EFRAG’s due process from design to approval of the VSME ED (From November 2022 to November 2023)
6
Key messages from the public consultation and how they have been addressed 7
Scope of the VSME 11
Useful references in the CSRD 11
One or two different reporting standards for SMEs 12
Simplified language and consistency with ESRS Set 1 12
Trickle-down effect and value chain cap 13
Structure of the VSME 15
Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report (Basic Module, Comprehensive Module) 20
Basic module 22
B1 – Basis for preparation 23
B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable economy 24
B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions 25
B4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 26
B5 – Biodiversity 27
B6 – Water 27
B7 – Resource use, circular economy, and waste management 28
B8 – Workforce – General characteristics 29
B9 – Workforce – Health and safety 29
B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining, and training 30
B11 – Convictions and fines for corruption and bribery 30
Comprehensive Module 31
C1 – Strategy: Business Model and Sustainability – Related Initiatives 33
C2 – Description of practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy 33
Consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3 (Basic Module) 34
C3 – GHG reduction targets and climate transition 34
C4 – Climate risks 35
Comprehensive Module – Social Metrics 36
C5 – Workforce (General) Additional characteristics 36
C6 – Additional own workforce information – Human rights policies and processes 36
C7 – Severe human rights incidents 37
Comprehensive Module – Governance Metrics 37
C8 – Revenues from certain sectors and exclusion from EU reference benchmarks 37
C9 – Gender diversity ratio in governance body 37
Appendix A: Defined Terms 39
Annex 1: VSME Exposure Draft (ED) January 2024 49
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED 101
Annex 3: List of public meetings held on the VSME 186
Annex 4: List of internal meetings held on the VSME 187
Annex 5: List of outreach meetings 188
Annex 6: Breakdown of the VSME community members 189
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS
Set 1 190
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap 199
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME 207
Annex 10: Timing and location of the sustainability report in European countries 272
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses 275
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings 283
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only - VSME ED Public Consultation 288
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire 293
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire 311
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshops with banking and SME associations 318
December 2024 Page 3 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Introduction and key steps of EFRAG due process
BC1. The objective of this document is to illustrate the basis for conclusions and describe the
process followed in defining the EFRAG Voluntary Standard for non-listed micro-, small-,
medium-undertakings (‘the VSME’). In this document ‘non-listed SMEs’ is used to identify
the undertakings in the scope of the VSME, including micro-undertakings1. This includes
the methodological approach taken, the main content of the Standard and the key aspects
discussed by the EFRAG Sustainability Reporting Board (‘SRB’) and the EFRAG
Sustainability Reporting Technical Expert Group (‘SR TEG’), as a result of the public
consultation and field test.
BC2. EFRAG’s work on such a voluntary Standard for non-listed SMEs falls outside the
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’). It stems from the market’s need to
have a common point of reference to be used by SMEs to face growing sustainability data
requests from business partners and lowering entry barriers to sustainability reporting by
non-listed SMEs.
BC3. The primary ambition is for the VSME to become the basis for lenders, investors and
corporate counterparts in the value chain when they define their ESG data requests for
SMEs. In concrete terms this means that, based on market acceptance, the VSME is
expected to limit de facto current multiple ESG data requests (a significant cost of
preparation for SMEs) by replacing the various uncoordinated ESG questionnaires.
BC4. The purpose of the VSME is to support SMEs in:
(a) providing information that will help satisfy the data needs of large undertakings
requesting sustainability information from their suppliers;
(b) providing information that will help satisfy data needs from lenders/credit providers and
investors, to improve SMEs’ access to finance;
(c) improving the management of their sustainability issues. This will support their
competitive growth and enhance their resilience in the short-, medium-, and long-term,
and the VSME can be used as an internal management tool; and
(d) contributing to a more sustainable and inclusive economy.
BC5. Hence, a fundamental aspect of the VSME is its market acceptance:
(a) on the user’s side, acceptance by business partners, i.e. lenders, investors, and
corporate clients as well as heads of supply chains, to replace their multiple
questionnaires and use instead the VSME to gather sustainability data from SMEs.
Those data requests fulfil the needs under their ESRS reporting obligations or
managing sustainability risks in investment portfolios or in the supply chain; and
(b) on the preparers side, SMEs (as well as small- and medium-sized practitioners as
proxies of SMEs) accepting the VSME as a reporting tool to start their sustainability
journey and monitor sustainability performance while also responding to growing
requests of sustainability data from business partners.
BC6. The public consultation and field test allowed for the identification of important conditions
to facilitate broad market acceptance. These include:
(a) the availability of online platforms that work at the same time as template and data
repositories, making the reported information available to multiple existing and
potential business partners;
(b) the availability of free or affordable online tools supporting the preparation of the
disclosures (e.g. GHG calculator).
1 Micro undertaking if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €450,000 in balance sheet total,
€900,000 in net turnover, or an average of 10 employees.
Small undertaking if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €5 million in balance sheet total, €10
million in net turnover, or an average of 50 employees.
Medium undertaking if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €25 million in balance sheet total,
€50 million in net turnover, or an average of 250 employees.
December 2024 Page 4 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC7. The VSME is a deliverable of the European Commission SMEs Relief Package
(September 2023). The European Commission tasked EFRAG to develop a simple and
standardised framework for SMEs to report on ESG issues, creating better opportunities
to obtain green financing and thus facilitating the transition to a sustainable economy. In
particular, in Action 14 of the SMEs Relief Package it is mentioned that the ‘Commission
will ensure that SMEs have a simple and standardized framework to report on ESG issues
… ensuring the rapid delivery of voluntary standards for non-listed SMEs.’
BC8. In addition, the European Commission’s ‘Questions and Answers on the Adoption of
European Sustainability Reporting Standards’ that accompanies the adoption of the ESRS’
Delegated Acts in July 2023 (Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 -
hereafter also referred to as ‘ESRS Set 1’), contains specific text about non-listed SMEs
that can be summarised as follows:
(a) Some non-listed SMEs which are not subject to any sustainability reporting
requirements under the Accounting Directive (Directive 2013/34/EU) as amended by
the CSRD may nevertheless receive requests for sustainability information from
customers, banks, investors or other stakeholders. ‘EFRAG is therefore also
developing simpler, voluntary standards for use by non-listed SMEs. These voluntary
standards should enable non-listed SMEs to respond to requests for sustainability
information in an efficient and proportionate manner and so to facilitate their
participation in the transition to a sustainable economy.’
BC9. Reflecting the above, the logic followed in the standard setting has been primarily to
prioritise the identification of a proportionate set of indicators as a credible replacement for
at least a substantial component of the questionnaires currently used. At the same time,
the standard supports a complete picture of the ESG impacts that would inform
stakeholders other than lenders, investors and corporate clients in keeping SMEs
accountable for impacts is not the focus of this Standard.
EFRAG SRB approval (13 November 2024)
BC10. The EFRAG SRB approved VSME on 13 November 2024. The following SRB members
supported the standard: Salvador Marin, Ruben Zandvliet, Thomas Roulland, Laurence
Rivat, Roderik Meeder, Mariyan Nikolov, Maria Dolores Urrea Sandoval, Marcello Bianchi,
Kristian Koktvedgaard, Kerstin Lopatta, Filip Gregor, Grégoire de Montchalin, Charlotte
Söderlund, Luc Vansteenkiste, Monika Brom, Simon Braaskma, Begona Giner, Wim
Bartels, Patrick de Cambourg, Isabelle Schoemann, Alex Bassen.
BC11. While approving the overall Standard, four of them (Alexander Bassen, Marcello Bianchi,
Monika Brom, Simon Braaksma) expressed reservations on the following specific aspects
of it:
(a) the Basic Module is in general too complex for micro-undertakings which should be
allowed to use a pre-defined sub-set of disclosures of that module (a simplified Basic
Module) in order to not discourage them to use the Standard;
(b) the Basic Module should be targeted also to small companies;
(c) some of the disclosure requirements included both in the Basic and in the
Comprehensive Modules are still too complex and granular for SMEs, as clearly
emerged from the field test (B3, B7 were considered ‘highly difficult’ by around 1/3 of
responses and ‘medium difficult’ by around another 30% of responses). Even higher
difficulty has been pointed out regarding C3 and C4. An additional field test to assess
the feasibility of the current version of the VSME Standard would be useful;
(d) Appendix B (list of sustainability issues) should be simplified;
(e) to avoid double reporting, it should be possible to integrate VSME
information/requirements into other reports, such as EMAS or GRI; they fear in
particular that the adoption of the VSME could result in the discontinuation of these
reports.
BC12. Cristina Saporetti (representative of Business Europe) abstained as the final version will
still impose significant costs on smaller companies for understanding all the requirement
and terminology. She pointed in particular to the geolocalisation and the environmental
requirements, with the latter emerging as challenging in the field test (the SRB member
did not specify which ones in particular).
December 2024 Page 5 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC13. The EFRAG SRB agreed to modify the following content in the VSME version approved
by EFRAG SR TEG. While keeping unchanged the substance of the requirements, the
EFRAG SRB intended to simplify further the narrative components of the Basic Module. In
particular, the EFRAG SRB agreed to move the description of the practices, policies and
future initiatives in the Comprehensive Module. In addition, the EFRAG SRB agreed to
move from the Basic Module to the Comprehensive Module the description of the
undertaking’s strategy, business model and sustainability-related initiatives. The markup
of these paragraphs is presented in Annex 9.
BC14. The EFRAG SRB considered the activities undertaken by the EFRAG Secretariat,
including the supplementary workshops on the revised VSME in September 2024, as well
as the evidence from the consultation and the field test. They concluded that a re-exposure
of the final VSME would have not revealed substantially new elements on the concerns of
stakeholders. For this reason, following EFRAG due process procedures, they concluded
that a re-exposure was not needed.
EFRAG SR TEG approval (22 October 2024)
BC15. On 22 October EFRAG SR TEG approved the VSME. The following 20 SR TEG members
approved the standard: Piermario Barzaghi, Kati Beiersdorf, Belen Varela, Carlota de
Paula Coelho, Chiara Del Prete, Eric Duvaud, Jose Moneva, Julia Kölzer, Olivier
Scherer, Per Anders Öjar Törnqvist, Piotr Biernacki, Signe Lysgaard, Sigurt Vitols, Luc
Hendrickx, Anne-Claire Ducrocq, Sandra Atler, Robert Adamczyk, Christoph Toepfer,
Philippe Diaz and Jean-Francois Coppenolle. One SR TEG member (Luca Bonaccorsi)
abstained.
BC16. While approving the Standard:
(a) Luc Hendrickx expressed reservations on the inclusion of Disclosure C9 – Gender
Diversity in Governance Body because of legal reasons, as there is no legal binding
requirement in the sustainability reporting legislation to ask for this kind of information
from SMEs. In addition, Directive (EU) 2022/2381 on improving gender balance among
directors of listed companies exempts SMEs from its scope; and
(b) Signe Lysgaard, Sandra Atler and Sigurt Vitols expressed reservations on the ‘may
instead of shall’ datapoint on non-employees in C5 – Additional (general) workforce
characteristics, and on the own workforce specification in C6 – Human rights policies
and processes.
Meetings since the end of the public consultation (From May to November 2024)
BC17. Following the end of the public consultation (May 2024), the EFRAG Secretariat discussed
the results with both SR TEG and the SRB in July. During these discussions, SR TEG
and the SRB approved strategic orientations to be implemented based on the
proposals presented by the EFRAG Secretariat.
BC18. Following discussions with SR TEG and the SRB in July, the EFRAG Secretariat
modified the draft VSME Standard accordingly and during a series of SR TEG discussions
in September and October, it reviewed these changes with SR TEG. Furthermore, the
EFRAG Secretariat held two additional meetings with preparer and user associations to
ensure coherency between public consultation results and the opinions of preparer and
user associations. The dates of all these meetings are mentioned in Annex 3.
EFRAG’s due process from design to approval of the VSME ED (From November 2022 to
November 2023)
BC19. The VSME ED was discussed for the first time by SR TEG on 17 November 2022. The
EFRAG SRB on 27 January 2023 discussed the need to develop a single standard for all
SMEs or two separate standards and concluded on developing two as follows:
(a) ESRS for listed SMEs (identified in this document as ESRS LSME or LSME2), which
is legally binding, according to the CSRD Art. 19 (a) (6); and
(b) VSME (i.e. a voluntary sustainability reporting standard for non-listed SMEs).
2 At the date of the issuance of VSME, EFRAG has not finalise its advice on LSME.
December 2024 Page 6 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC20. The EFRAG SRB consensually agreed to instruct SR TEG to:
(a) start with the ESRS LSME;
(b) not overdo the ESRS LSME (i.e. proportionality) but remain within the remit of the
CSRD’s constraints;
(c) once the ESRS LSME’s basis is stabilised, consider the VSME (including the PTF
draft3) from the perspective of consistency and proportionality;
(d) consider merging the ESRS LSME and the VSME if it appears relevant; and
(e) take into account that the requirements for both listed and non-listed SMEs should be
available at the same time.
BC21. With reference to point (d), the technical activities leading to the drafting of the two
Standards after this meeting showed that the differences in purpose and perimeter of
application of the two respective Standards require different approaches. Merging the two
Standards would have failed to meet the different needs of the respective constituencies.
BC22. Following the nine meetings of EFRAG SR TEG and eight EFRAG SRB meetings as
illustrated in Annex 3, the VSME ED was approved by EFRAG SR TEG on 8 November
2023 on a consensus basis, with 23 SR TEG members4 recommending the issuance of
the ED for public consultation. On 29 November 2023, 21 EFRAG SRB members5
approved the ED on a consensus basis for public consultation, with a number of changes
being compared with the text approved by EFRAG SR TEG.
BC23. In addition to being discussed by EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB, the VSME ED was also
discussed intensively with stakeholders at: (i) several meetings of the EFRAG SME Expert
Working Group, (ii) workshops with the EFRAG VSME community, and (iii) workshops with
representatives of SMEs, banks and large corporates held between December 2022 and
November 2023 (Annex 4).
Key messages from the public consultation and how they have been addressed
BC24. The VSME Exposure Draft is included in Annex 1 of this document.
BC25. Following the approval at the EFRAG SRB meeting on 29 November 2023, the VSME ED
was published for public consultation for four months from 22 January 2024 until 21 May
2024. The EFRAG Secretariat received comments from 311 respondents from the online
survey (126 preparers, 39 users and 146 other respondents) and from 164 participants in
the field tests (135 preparers and 29 users). The EFRAG Secretariat also received 22
comment letters on top of the online survey respondents. Platforms that currently work as
data aggregators were involved as a proxy for preparers, and users represented 23,000
SMEs across Europe and over 100,000 large undertakings worldwide. In parallel to the
public consultation, EFRAG has also run a total of 11 field test workshops. The field test
included preparers preparing their sustainability report based on the VSME ED.
Supplementary workshops were also held in September 2024 to collect reactions on a
revised VSME draft, prepared to reflect the consultation feedback.
BC26. The following paragraphs illustrate the key messages gathered from the public consultation
and field test, as well as how they have been integrated in the final VSME.
3 Proposal by former EFRAG Project Task Force ESRS (PTF-ESRS), cluster 8 (Issue Paper 03-0, Appendix 1 of SR TEG
meeting of 17 November 2022).
4 While voting in support of the ED, Luc Hendrickx qualified his vote, expressing disagreement on the inclusion of the
following disclosures: i) convictions and fines, ii) definition of accidents in B 9 and iii) diversity of the board members in BP
2. He also expressed reservations on the usefulness and benefits of the Business Partner module. Despite these
reservations, he supported issuing the ED in its current version for consultation.
5 The EFRAG SRB member Annina Tanhuanpää, representing the banking sector, expressed reservations regarding the
current proposed standards as the ED VSME may not be sufficiently simplified, potentially imposing an undue costs of
preparation on SMEs. She also noted the reservations expressed by SME representatives in the EFRAG SR TEG on the
usefulness and benefits of the Business Partner module. She agreed to issue the ED for consultation, expecting that the
consultation would help address these concerns.
December 2024 Page 7 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC27. Request for an online tool and a VSME ecosystem. A clear request stemmed from both
prepares and users, on the need to have an online platform and additional online tools to
simplify and guide the reporting process for SMEs. This message was pervasive in online
survey, field tests and comment letters.
(a) Stakeholders suggested that the VSME be made available as an online reporting
template, to facilitate the exchange of information between preparers and business
counterparts. This would unlock the full benefits for value chain participation. The
availability of a central repository (inspired by the existing platforms) where SMEs,
banks and other counterparties (heads of supply chains) can populate online templates
and have access to the data is essential in order to achieve the expected benefits. The
questionnaires would be replaced by the downloading of data from this source. This
was also an important message of the Cost Benefit Analysis on the VSME ED.
(b) Stakeholders suggested developing online tools (calculators, databases) accessible to
SMEs when preparing the information, thus reducing the technical complexity and the
need for specialised skills. While EFRAG can partially work on certain elements of
guidance and stimulate the availability of such online tools, it will not develop them. In
particular, the development of online platforms and tools (i.e. GHG calculators,
geolocation tools) is considered by stakeholders an essential element to facilitate the
reporting as well as the comparability of information.
BC28. In addition, several stakeholders requested adding VSME supporting guides in addition to
the VSME. This is an area where EFRAG plans to be active in the future, resources
permitting, and developing synergies with the current EFRAG workplan (e.g. on sector
guidance). Not all items in this list will be covered by EFRAG; however, EFRAG will
endeavour to stimulate the development of some of these elements by other stakeholders.
The following areas have been identified by those stakeholders:
(a) Templates of the VSME report and mock up disclosure;
(b) Guidelines to simplify actions/policies in relation to the possible sustainability issues to
be used as a scrolling menu from the VSME online template under the Basic and
Comprehensive Modules;
(c) Examples of climate change actions or transition plans for SMEs;
(d) Examples of impacts on workers in the value chain and affected communities for
SMEs;
(e) Guidance linking the VSME and ISO-CEN CENELEC standards; Map ISO 14001 to
the VSME;
(f) VSME Pollution Guidance.
December 2024 Page 8 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC29. Deletion of the Narrative-Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) module. The public
consultation, field tests, and comment letters, all underlined the complexity of this module
(for both prepares and users), who both requested for substantial simplifications. In
particular, SME business associations in the public consultation indicated a preference
for prioritising the Basic Module and BP Module over the Narrative PAT Module. SME
associations considered materiality and PAT as over-demanding and suggested deleting
or postponing the module. Disclosures N2, N3, and N4 were considered complex by SME
business associations. The comments included: i) the complexity of the materiality
process and selection/engagement with stakeholders; ii) the need for guidance, examples,
templates and tools to help SMEs; (iii) since the materiality process is a considerable cost
of preparation for SMEs, they suggested using sector-guidance instead of closed-ended
questions. Similar comments were reiterated in the comment letters by a variety of
respondent categories. Some preparers asked to remove this module from the VSME.
Similar views were also voiced through the field tests. The field tests also indicated that for
preparers, this module presents some operational challenges, with materiality being the
largest challenge. Overall, disclosures N2 and N3 were perceived to be of great difficulty.
The main reason is that SMEs tend to be less equipped and would need the help of
consultants. N1 and N4, appeared to be disclosures of low difficulty, similarly to N5. With
regard to users (banking associations and large undertakings), concerns were raised
regarding disclosures N2 (‘Material sustainability matters’), and N4 (‘Key stakeholders’).
Many public consultation user respondents found the narrative nature of this module
problematic, as it made it difficult to obtain necessary reliable and comparable information
used for reporting and making comparisons across respondents over time; they considered
a more quantitative approach as preferrable (e.g. moving to a checklist of ‘yes/no’
questions). For N3 (‘Management of material sustainability matters’) banking associations
proposed a specific reformulation of it into a semi-narrative disclosure. On the other hand,
N1 (‘Strategy: business model and sustainability’) and N4 appeared to have lower
relevance compared to N5 for field- test users. For all these reasons, the Narrative-PAT
module was deleted and disclosures N1, N3 and N5 (‘Governance: responsibilities in
relation to sustainability matters’) were reallocated to the Basic and Comprehensive
Modules in a simplified semi-narrative format.
BC30. Removal of the materiality analysis from the VSME. The most recurring comments
indicated the following concerns: (i) the materiality analysis and the list of material matters
are considered too complex; (ii) there is a need for guidance, examples, charts, templates
and tools to help SMEs; (iii) the materiality analysis is useful but heavy for SMEs, as it is
time consuming and very costly; and (iv) there is a suggestion to use pre-defined sector-
guidance materiality instead. Preparers indicated challenges in terms of implementation
and cost. Other stakeholders had also expressed concerns on materiality. As for in the
field test, both preparers and users expressed concerns about materiality. Banks/investors
highlighted concerns associated with the materiality analysis, acknowledging the
complexity of this analysis for SMEs, hence questioning the reliability of the results. As
such, they indicated a general preference for replacing the materiality analysis with a pre-
defined list of sustainability matters by sector. The complexity of the materiality principle
was further confirmed by the CBA analysis. Business association preparers indicated that
materiality remains difficult. Based on these elements, the materiality analysis has been
deleted from the entire Standard. In the Comprehensive Module (previously named
Business Partners Module), materiality has been replaced wherever possible by an ‘if
applicable’ principle (refer to BC 76), as already used in the Basic Module.
December 2024 Page 9 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC31. Additional disclosures required by financial institutions and not included in the VSME.
During the public consultation, banks identified a list of additional datapoints. In July 2024,
the EFRAG SRB agreed to tentatively explore adding those disclosures in a new advanced
module called the Additional Financial Institutions (AFI) module subject to the EFRAG
Secretariat’s testing of the relevance of the new module with banks. In September 2024,
the EFRAG Secretariat organised a workshop with the banking associations that
participated in the public consultation (European and national associations). The outcome
was that four datapoints were confirmed as needed by banking associations: 1) radioactive
waste, 2) the female to male ratio at management level, 3) exclusion from EU reference
benchmarks, and 4) GHG intensity. These datapoints were ultimately reallocated to the
Basic and Comprehensive Modules, as they supplemented existing disclosures in those
two modules. In addition, four other datapoints suggested by some of the banking
respondents during the public consultation were ultimately deemed not necessary by the
majority of the banking associations in the workshop. As a result, EFRAG SR TEG and the
SRB decided to not include these datapoints: 1) energy production, 2) emissions of the
vehicle fleet, 3) number of employees with disabilities (protected categories), and 4) water
intensity. Finally, during the public consultation, the Platform on Sustainable Finance noted
its ongoing work to develop a streamlined EU Taxonomy for non-listed SMEs and
recommended the inclusion of a placeholder in VSME. This would create a link and offer
in VSME a single point of entry for all the sustainability related data requests, including
those stemming from this future streamlined EU Taxonomy. EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB
supported adding this placeholder as a possible content of the AFI Module. At the date of
approval and of issuance of VSME, the streamlined EU taxonomy has not yet been
finalised. Pending clarity on its content, the placeholder has been removed from VSME.
The accompanying letter to the VSME suggests to the EC that the placeholder or link to
the EU simplified taxonomy SME tool be eventually inserted in the Standard once the
content of the simplified taxonomy itself is finalised by the Platform on Sustainable
Finance.
BC32. Hence the AFI module was considered no longer needed and deleted entirely.
BC33. The final modular structure of the VSME. The following diagram shows the overall
structural changes that have been made to the VSME following the public consultation,
including the additional datapoints suggested by banks during the public consultation:
BC34. Public consultation results by disclosure have been integrated in detail in the text below
(refer to disclosures BC88 to BC194, which are related to disclosures B1 to C9).
Cost Benefit analysis
BC35. The key takeaway from the CBA results on the VSME, following the revisions undertaken
as a result of the public consultation is a reduction of reporting costs for preparers
compared to the VSME ED. This is because of the following changes that have been
implemented on the revised VSME:
(a) changes to the module structure;
(b) streamlining, removing of narrative disclosures, and elimination of references to
international guidelines;
(c) removal of the materiality analysis;
(d) inclusion of additional data points to account for requests from financial institutions.
December 2024 Page 10 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
(e) sensitivity analysis on analytical parameters suggesting that net impacts are neutral to
positive following the first year of implementation; and
(f) in the central scenario, net impacts becoming positive from the third year of
implementation of the VSME.
BC36. On the basis of the public consultation, the field-test results and preliminary cost-benefit
analysis, in July 2024 the EFRAG SRB and SR TEG agreed on the orientations both at
structural (as described above) and disclosure level of metrics, as described in the sections
for the Basic and Comprehensive Modules below. The EFRAG Secretariat implemented
the agreed changes in the revised VSME after the public consultation that was discussed
as follows: six meetings of the SR TEG between September and October 2024 and three
meetings of the SRB between October and November 2024. The specific list of meetings
along with the specific discussions, is listed in Annex 3. The revised VSME after the public
consultation was also discussed in the workshops with preparers and users, i.e. with
European and national banking associations (16 September 2024) and with European and
national SMEs’ representatives (23 September 2024). The outcomes of the workshops has
been an integral part of EFRAG SRB’s redeliberation and due process and, as such, they
are published in Annex 16.
Scope of the VSME
BC37. Paragraph 2 of the VSME explains that this is a voluntary Standard and applies to
undertakings whose securities are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the
European Union (i.e. non-listed). Article 3 of Directive 2013/34/EU (the Accounting
Directive) defines and distinguishes three categories of small and medium-sized
undertakings based on their balance sheet total, net turnover and average number of
employees during the financial year, as follows:
(a) micro if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €450,000 in balance sheet
total, €900,000 in net turnover, or an average of 10 employees;
(b) small if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €5 million in balance sheet
total, €10 million in net turnover, or an average of 50 employees.
(c) medium if it does not exceed two of the following thresholds: €25 million in balance
sheet total, €50 million in net turnover, or an average of 250 employees.
BC38. The balance sheet and net revenue criteria indicated above have been adjusted by the
EC’s Delegated Act amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the adjustments of the
size criteria for micro-, small-, medium-sized with implementation as of January 2024 (and
reporting 2025). Hence the text in paragraph 2 of this Standard has been adjusted
accordingly. Additionally, based on Article 3, paragraph 10 of the [Directive 2013/34/EU
(the accounting directive)], if an undertaking exceeds two of the three criteria for medium-
sized undertakings set out in BC37, for two consecutive financial years, it shall then and
only then be considered a large undertaking. The same applies conversely: if a large
undertaking falls within the criteria set out in BC37 for two consecutive financial years, it
shall then be considered an SME.
BC39. Micro, small and medium companies (as defined above) are the vast majority of companies
in Europe. They are in total 25.86 million with the following breakdown:
(a) micro = 24.0 million companies (93.3% of total EU companies)
(b) small = 1.5 million companies (5.7% of total EU companies)
(c) medium = 206.400 companies (0.8% of total EU companies).
BC40. In this document ‘non-listed SMEs’ is used to identify the undertakings in the scope of the
VSME, including micro-undertakings.
Useful references in the CSRD
BC41. The following references in the CSRD provide background:
6 Annual Report on European SMEs 2023/2024 published by the European Commission. (Katsinis, A., Lagüera-González,
J., Di Bella, L., Odenthal, L., Hell, M., Lozar, B., Annual Report on European SMEs 2023/2024, Publications Office of the
European Union, Luxemburg, 2024, doi:10.2826/355464)
December 2024 Page 11 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
(a) Art 29b4 indicates that standards for listed SMEs, small non-complex banks and
captive (re)insurances (ESRS LSME) will legally cap the information which ESRS can
require large undertakings to obtain from SMEs in their value chains;
(b) Recital 21 indicates that small and medium-sized undertakings that are not listed on
a regulated market in the Union should also have the possibility of choosing to use the
simplified ESRS LSME on a voluntary basis.
(c) Recital 21 also indicates that such standard will therefore help to protect and enhance
the access of smaller undertakings whose securities are admitted to trading on a
regulated market in the Union to financial capital and avoid discrimination against such
undertakings on the part of financial market participants;
(d) Recital 22 says that Member States should be free to assess the impact of their
national transposition measures on small and medium-sized undertakings, to ensure
that they are not disproportionately affected, with specific attention to be given to micro-
undertakings and to avoid an unnecessary administrative preparatory cost. Member
States should consider introducing measures to support small and medium-sized
undertakings in applying the sustainability reporting standards.
BC42. With reference to Art. 29(b)(4) above, the VSME does not have a legal role in setting the
cap under the CSRD, according to the interpretation of the CSRD as confirmed to EFRAG
by the representatives of the European Commission who are observers in EFRAG’s due
process procedure. The VSME is expected to form the basis for lenders, investors and
corporate clients of non-listed SMEs, when defining sustainability data requests for SMEs.
Assuming that the VSME can replace a substantial part of existing ESG data requests for
SMEs, the Standard is expected to set a de facto limit to the current multiple ESG data
requests that SMEs are facing. Current EFRAG considerations are detailed in the section
on trickle-down effects in Annex 8.
One or two different reporting standards for SMEs
BC43. With reference to Recital 21 above, EFRAG considered whether the non-listed SME should
also apply the ESRS LSME, resulting in a single standard for SMEs.
BC44. EFRAG was requested by several stakeholders to develop a separate standard consisting
of minimum voluntary disclosures adapted to the characteristics and capacities of non-
listed SMEs, because a standard for listed SMEs would be too complex to apply for them.
BC45. In particular, the outreach conducted with the banking sector reflected the need to cover
micro undertakings in the scope of the VSME. EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB considered
that the level of simplification and proportionality of a voluntary standard suited for use by
micro and small undertakings would be irreconcilable with the minimum disclosures
needed by investors and covered in the ESRS LSME. The aim is to avoid discrimination
against listed SMEs on the part of financial market participants (see Recital 21 indicates
that small and medium-sized undertakings that are not listed on a regulated market in the
Union should also have the possibility of choosing to use the simplified ESRS LSME on a
voluntary basis.).
Simplified language and consistency with ESRS Set 1
BC46. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the VSME explain that consistency with the European Sustainability
Reporting Standards (‘ESRS’) for large undertakings has been carefully considered.
EFRAG has sought to pursue a consistent set of standards belonging to the ESRS
literature. This will facilitate the understanding of the requirements by users and preparers.
The same list of sustainability matters (Appendix B of the VSME which replicates AR 16 in
ESRS Set 1) is used in the VSME, LSME and ESRS Set 1.
BC47. Although the VSME has been designed with a highly simplified structure and language,
maintaining the consistency between this Standard and the ESRS was a key
methodological element.
BC48. The VSME has not been conceived as a simplification of ESRS Set 1. Rather, it has been
designed based on the frequently observed data requests from lenders, investors and
corporate clients of SMEs. The VSME also uses a more simplified language than the LSME
to prioritise proportionality, however coherence has been preserved between VSME and
ESRS LSME (and ESRS Set 1), in terms of structure, sustainability matters and key
defined terms.
December 2024 Page 12 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC49. The language simplification in the VSME ED (particularly in the Basic Module) aimed at
clarifying defined terms in line with the terminology of ESRS Set 1. Additionally, following
the public consultation, both preparer and user respondents requested further language
simplifications and deeper explanations within the guidance. For this reason, the SRB and
SR TEG have requested that the EFRAG Secretariat add further guidance and further
simplify the Standard. Part of these additional language simplifications are related to the
‘if applicable’ principle. The wording ‘if applicable’ at the beginning of a datapoint has now
been replaced by disclosing the specific criteria for the applicability, i.e. explanations for
when this disclosure requirement is ‘applicable’ for the reporting undertaking. This principle
is further explained in the section ‘Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report’
below. Additionally, for certain disclosures, semi-narrative, ‘yes/no’ disclosures were
specifically provided for certain social datapoints that SMEs previously perceived as too
complex to disclose on.
Trickle-down effect and value chain cap
BC50. This section presents the assessment of EFRAG SR TEG and the EFRAG SRB about the
role that the VSME would play in allowing a satisfactory coverage of the corresponding
datapoints in ESRS for large undertakings that have to report on their value chain. This
assessment has been confirmed by specific questions in the public consultation.
BC51. Under the provisions of the CSRD (Art. 29(b)(4)), the ESRS Set 1 for large undertakings
shall not specify disclosures that would require large undertakings to obtain information
from SMEs in their value chain that exceeds the information to be disclosed pursuant to
ESRS that EFRAG is developing for listed SMEs (LSME ESRS). EFRAG’s work on the
VSME identifies this legal requirement as 'value chain cap’. Some stakeholder requested
the use of VSME as value chain cap, however this does not correspond to the legal content
of the CSRD.
BC52. At the date of the issuance of VSME, EFRAG has not yet issued its technical advice on
ESRS LSME.
BC53. While the vast majority of SMEs that are part of the value chain of large undertakings is
not in the scope of the ESRS LSME, from a legal perspective the standard-setting process
must follow the limitation introduced by legislators in the CSRD (i.e. the ESRS LSME, and
not the VSME, is legally setting the value chain cap).
BC54. During the development of VSME the value chain cap and the need for proportionality were
extensively debated to appropriately balance expectations of SME preparers and users of
SME information. Part of the discussions focused on the so-called ‘trickledown effect’ (i.e.
the reporting cost of preparation for non-listed SMEs derive from reporting obligations of
their counterparties that are large undertakings and applying ESRS Set 1).
BC55. The table in Annex 8 provides a detailed analysis of ESRS Set 1 datapoints with a value
chain dimension (see the value chain map in the EFRAG IG 2 Value Chain Implementation
Guidance) with reference to the ‘trickledown effect’ under two perspectives:
(a) Perspective 1, focuses on the potential cost of preparation for SME suppliers due to
data requests for ESRS reporting from Set 1 preparers. This perspective looks at what
the corresponding datapoints are in the VSME and how proportionate they are. This
perspective covers the trickle-down effect and takes account of the Set 1 provisions
and guidance regarding the preparation of information related to value chain
(particularly, in relation to the collection of data and the use of secondary data such as
proxies, statistics and estimates).
(b) Perspective 2 focuses on the correspondence between the value chain datapoints in
Set 1 and those in the VSME. This perspective looks at whether and to what extent
there could be potential (additional) trickle-down effects on SMEs derived from data
not covered by the VSME.
BC56. As a reminder, the guiding principle for VSME was simplification, while meeting users’
needs. VSME is sector agnostic. Specific sectorial perspectives, as well as supply chain
management policies or labels, data platforms developed by certain groups of
undertakings (‘specific arrangements’), may introduce specific requirements that are not
covered by the analysis presented in Annex 8.
BC57. EFRG SR TEG and the EFRAG SRB concluded the following:
December 2024 Page 13 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
(a) While the ESRS cannot result in large undertakings having to request disclosures that
are not included in the ESRS LSME, the VSME is intended to play a key role in
supporting SMEs, when they prepare the information needed by large undertakings for
ESRS reporting, as well as for other obligations including for business purposes.
(b) Therefore, the VSME Modules (Basic and Comprehensive) include simplified
disclosures that generally correspond to the reasonable expectations of ESRS Set 1
preparers (i.e. large undertakings that prepare their sustainability statement under the
ESRS). As a consequence, non-listed SMEs that apply the VSME will in general be
able to meet the data requests defined in ESRS Set 1 except for specific cases.
(c) These cases correspond to disclosures that could trigger additional data requests from
large undertakings, either due to their ESRS reporting obligations or for other
obligations and business purposes. These disclosures, are not included in the VSME,
due to their excessive complexity for non-listed SMEs in general. They are principally
of a sectorial nature (GHG removals, microplastics, substances of concern/high
concern, resource inflows), and are mainly needed for management or specific
arrangement purposes.
December 2024 Page 14 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Structure of the VSME
BC58. As a result of the structural changes previously described, the Standard is composed of
two modules: the Basic Module and the former Business Partners Module, now renamed
‘Comprehensive Module’. The change of name was requested in the public consultation to
indicate that business partners may request more comprehensive information beyond what
is covered via the Basic Module.
BC59. Paragraph 5 of the VSME explains that the Standard consists of 2 modules:
(a) Basic Module: This Module is the target content for micro-undertakings and constitutes
a minimum requirement for other SME. Following the public consultation, both
preparers and users agreed on the importance of this Module. As a result of the public
consultation, it was decided at the SRB to keep this Module with a highly simplified
language as an entry level module for non-listed SMEs. Following the public
consultation, the language of this Module was further simplified. All the disclosures
have to be reported on. Compared to ESRS Set 1, the concept of materiality was
removed from this Module and replaced with the concept of ‘applicability’ as the
materiality analysis requirement was considered too complex for non-listed SMEs. This
is consistent with the feedback EFRAG received during the public consultation. In
general, when the undertaking’s circumstances are different from those that would
trigger disclosure of that specific datapoint, no information for the specific datapoint
has to be provided.
(b) Comprehensive Module (former Business Partners Module): SMEs are expected to
use this Module to cover the more comprehensive ESG requests from business
partners on top of the Basic Module. The Module includes the metrics required by
financial market participants (SFDR PAI Table 1, Pillar 3, Benchmark regulation) as
well as other metrics relevant for business counterparts. The assumption largely
confirmed in public consultation, is that the EU SF datapoints can satisfy the data
needs of both banks or corporates as SFDR PAI are considered proxies to manage
the sustainability profile of SMEs clients (banks/investors) and suppliers (corporates).
As in the case of the Basic Module, metrics are to be reported ‘if applicable’. This was
an important change stemming from the public consultation since the materiality
analysis was removed from the VSME.
BC60. EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB considered a modular approach to be a logical and practical
way to address the complexity of dealing with a broad and diversified class of undertakings
(from less than 10 employees to 250 employees). It also assists in meeting two objectives:
(i – primary objective) to satisfy a substantial part of the data demands from business
partners and (ii – secondary objective) to provide a very simplified approach for
entrepreneurs to embark on the sustainability journey. This was confirmed in the public
consultation as respondents indicated that the VSME may cover up to 80% of the
information requested by business partners (i.e. banks, investors, and large undertakings).
It is important to note that specific sectorial information could not be covered by the VSME,
as this Standard is sector-agnostic.
BC61. There is also a third way of using VSME: SMEs may choose to adopt the Basic Module
only or to complement it with the Comprehensive Module, depending on the maturity of
their sustainability practices and the data demands they are subjected to. The adoption of
the modular approach allows for the definition of a path from the Basic Module to more
sophisticated reporting.
BC62. The two Modules have been defined on the basis of:
(a) feedback from EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB collected in the internal consultation
during summer 2023 and the written consultation of the EFRAG VSME Community
and SME Expert Working Group (details in Annex 4 and Annex 5 of this Basis for
Conclusions);
(b) in-depth analysis of ESG questionnaires of business partners;
(c) outcome of outreach events (detailed information in Annex 5 of this Basis for
Conclusions);
December 2024 Page 15 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
(d) content of a working document prepared by Cluster 8 of the EFRAG Project Task Force
ESRS (PTF-ESRS). The PTF developed the Exposure Drafts for the ESRS Set 1
before the completion of EFRAG’s reform, but the Cluster 8 working document was
not approved by the EFRAG PTF-ESRS as Set 1 was the priority. EFRAG SR TEG
and the SRB considered that the research performed by Cluster 8 was instrumental to
speed up the process of developing the VSME7; and
(e) content of ESRS Set 1 that was considered as a ‘cap’, i.e. in general a datapoint not
being in Set 1 is not included. However, as a result of the public consultation, certain
disclosures were introduced in order to satisfy the data demands from business
partners and to simplify reporting for preparers. These are:
i. B1 paragraph 24(e)(vii) on geolocation since geolocation data requires more
precise location information than the NUTS system in ESRS Set 1, which, at
its most narrow level (NUTS 3) identifies only small regions. In terms of
decimal degrees of coordinates, NUTS 3 corresponds to coordinates with one
decimal place. Coordinates with five decimal places, on the other hand, allow
for the identification of, for example, individual trees on a map, thus providing
much more essential information for the purposes of the Standard. Most
geolocation tools and platforms handle coordinates with up to eight decimal
places. The more decimal places, the more accurate and specific the location
is, which is the objective of geolocation. Google Maps, for example, at its most
basic form, handles coordinates with six decimal places (and 14 decimal
places at its most advanced form). Therefore, for the VSME it has been
decided to ask for coordinates with five decimal places, which will give
companies leeway (to use the most rudimentary tools for the identification of
coordinates, while still providing accurate information) and will allow for the
use of most tools, platforms or information systems for the treatment of
geolocation data by financial institutions, consultants or other stakeholders in
a later phase. The need for more accurate and precise geolocation
information in the VSME thus prevents the alignment with the NUTS system.
For more details, please refer to BC90 below; and
ii. B7 paragraph 38 (c) on annual mass-flow, which was inserted to simplify the
datapoints on recycled and recyclable content in products and packaging
(refer to BC126 below for details).
BC63. The EFRAG Secretariat analysed 12 examples of ESG questionnaires, which included two
national central banks, four national federations, one national credit information provider,
one national bank, one rating agency, and three mixed banks and supply chain
(international initiatives) questionnaires. These questionnaires cover around 26 000 SMEs
and are part of initiatives that comprise approximately 700 banks and 450 companies in
the value chain. Please note that some of these questionnaires have an international
scope. In addition, the EFRAG Secretariat also analysed a questionnaire from one ESG
rating agency that is used by more than 100 000 companies.
BC64. On this basis the EFRAG Secretariat has identified the relevant recurrences of DRs in the
VSME in the existing questionnaires. In addition, the public consultation tested which
disclosures were considered feasible for preparers and a ‘must have’ for the users. The
table on the next page summarises those elements.
Public Additional
Number of consultation information
questionnaires results
Datapoint in the VSME
in which it is (supported/
asked not
supported)
Basic Module
12 Supported Simplifications
Disclosure B3 – Energy and greenhouse
requested plus
gas emissions
additional datapoint on
7 Appendix 1 – Issue Paper 03.01 SR TEG 17 November 2022
December 2024 Page 16 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Public Additional
Number of consultation information
questionnaires results
Datapoint in the VSME
in which it is (supported/
asked not
supported)
energy intensity
requested
7 Supported ‘If applicable’ clarified.
Disclosure B4 – Pollution of air, water and
Reference to EMAS
soil
removed.
4 Supported Not modified (added
Disclosure B5 – Biodiversity
guidance)
9 Supported Not modified
Disclosure B6 – Water
9 Supported Simplification by
introducing the concept
Disclosure B7 – Resource use, circular of mass flows plus
economy and waste management semi-narrative option
given to describe
circularity principles.
8 Supported Additional
datapoint on the
Disclosure B8 – Workforce – General
employee turnover rate
Characteristics
requested with a
threshold.
Disclosure B9 – Workforce – Health and 3 Supported Not modified
safety
7 Supported Reformulation of
Disclosure B10 – Workforce –
adequate wages.
Remuneration, collective bargaining, and
Threshold adjusted to
training
Pay Transparency
Point (b) percentage gap in pay between
Directive for gender
its female and m ale employees
pay gap.
- Not Disclosure removed.
supported However, the key
Disclosure B11 – Workers in the value
aspects have been
chain, affected communities, consumers
kept within B2
and end-users
(practices/ policies and
future initiatives)
4 Supported by Not modified
Disclosure B112 – Convictions and fines
banks, not by
for corruption and bribery
SMEs
Not supported:
materiality and
Narrative-PAT module
comparability of
narrative information
10 Partially Moved from PAT to
Disclosure N1 – Strategy: business model
supported Comprehensive
and sustainability related initiatives
Module
Not applicable Not Seen as too complex
supported by preparers, and not
Disclosure N2 – Material sustainability
comparable and
matters
reliable enough for
users
Disclosure N3 - Management of material 7 Partially Seen as complex by
sustainability matters supported preparers and essential
Par 60. Actions taken in the reporting for users both banks
period to improve its energy efficiency and and large undertakings.
to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions Banks suggested
Disclosure N3 - Management of material 3 reformulation as
sustainability matters seminarrative. The
December 2024 Page 17 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Public Additional
Number of consultation information
questionnaires results
Datapoint in the VSME
in which it is (supported/
asked not
supported)
Par 61. Policies, actions and targets in integration of this
relation to (i) workers in the value chain; disclosure in B2 was
and/or (ii) consumers and end-users; welcomed by both
and/or (iii) affected communities prepares and users in
Disclosure N3 - Management of material 8 the post-consultation
sustainability matters workshops.
Par 62. Actions taken to address breaches
in procedures and standards of
anticorruption and anti-bribery.
7 Not Seen as complex and
Disclosure N4 – Key stakeholders
supported not essential.
7 Partially Preparers said that for
Disclosure N5 – Governance: supported most SMEs the
responsibilities in relation to sustainability disclosure is not
matters applicable, but feasible.
Essential for banks.
Comprehensive module
10 Partially Moved from PAT to
Disclosure C1 – Strategy: business model
supported Comprehensive
and sustainability related initiatives
Module
Disclosure C2 – Description of practices, N/A N/A N/A
policies and future initiatives towards a
more sustainable economy
7 Content Request to merge
Disclosure C3 – GHG reduction and supported former BP4 and BP3.
climate tr ansition 7 Content Former BP4 simplified.
supported
9 Content Seen as too complex
supported by SMEs, but essential
for users. Revised
disclosure with
Disclosure C4– Climate risks simplification,
appreciated by both
stakeholder groups in
post-consultation
workshops
4 Partially Not considered
supported relevant/ applicable by
Disclosure BP6 – Hazardous waste and
SMEs, and considered
radioactive waste ratio
essential by users.
Integrated into B7.
N/A N/A Additional datapoints
requested by users in
Disclosure C5 – Workforce (General)
the public consultation
Additional characteristics
included as may
datapoints.
6 (former BP7) Partially Two disclosures
supported merged together.
5 (former BP8) Supported Simplified substantially
(drop-down, Yes/No
Disclosure C6: Human rights policies and menu).
proce sses Simplifications
welcomed by
stakeholders in post
consultation
workshops.
December 2024 Page 18 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Public Additional
Number of consultation information
questionnaires results
Datapoint in the VSME
in which it is (supported/
asked not
supported)
3 Supported Simplified substantially
(drop-down, Yes/No
menu). Simplifications
welcomed by
stakeholders in post
consultation
Disclosure C7 – Violations of OECD
workshops. Additional
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises or
datapoint for workers in
the UN Guiding Principles
the value chain,
affected communities
and consumers/end-
users following SR
TEG and public
consultations.
C8 – Revenues from certain sectors and 5 Supported Seen as essential by
exclusion from EU reference benchmarks users
6 Partially Seen as essential by
C9 – Gender diversity ratio in the supported users and as not
governance body always applicable/
relevant by preparers.
1 Not Removed, not relevant
Disclosure BP10 – Work-life balance
supported for users
3 Not Removed, not relevant
Disclosure BP11 – Number of apprentices
supported for users
BC65. While in outreaches, all categories of business partners recognised the three modules of
the VSME ED as relevant, the public consultation highlighted that the Narrative-PAT
Module would be of limited use for business partners and would be too difficult to prepare
for preparers. The main complexity of the Module was linked to the materiality analysis
that was considered not feasible for preparers and not reliable for users. In addition, banks
confirmed that the consolidation of the information in the Narrative Module would be too
complex, given its qualitative and less structured nature in the context of the very large
number of SME clients in their banking book. On the basis of the public consultation
feedback, EFRAG SR TEG and the EFRAG SRB have deleted the Narrative-PAT Module
and reallocated the narrative disclosure considered essential by users (former N1, N3 and
N5) to the Basic and Comprehensive Modules. The feedback also confirmed that the same
modules would serve the different categories of Business Partners as all of them consider
confirmed the same disclosures as essential, thus confirming the assumption tested in this
consultation.
BC66. Paragraph 5 of the VSME refers to paragraph 24, which illustrates the available options
for the preparation of a sustainability report, adopting one or more of the two modules of
the VSME. Once chosen, the undertaking shall comply with a module in its entirety, i.e.
including the information in each disclosure that is applicable to the undertaking’s specific
circumstances to avoid cherry picking and promoting comparability. To ensure flexibility,
the undertaking may however include selected disclosures from either of the remaining
modules and/or entity-specific or sector-specific disclosures (see paragraph 10 of the
VSME) to support the provision of relevant, faithful, comparable, understandable and
verifiable information.
BC67. Paragraph 6 of the VSME explains that the Basic Module is a prerequisite for the
Comprehensive Module. The flexibility described in BC 66 is assumed to lower entry
barriers for preparers and would allow for the meeting of users’ needs to the maximum
extent possible.
December 2024 Page 19 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC68. Paragraph 7 refers to Appendix A ‘Defined Terms’, which provides a glossary for the terms
used. This glossary has mostly the same definitions as ESRS Set 1 to align the concepts
and ensure conceptual coherence. For some terms, however, small changes to Set 1
have been introduced and those simplifications are mapped in the Annex 7 of this
document. Finally, definitions to help SMEs such as definitions for ‘governance’, ‘business
Conduct’ and ‘gross emissions’ have been introduced.
Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report (Basic Module,
Comprehensive Module)
Entity-specific component
BC69. Paragraph 10 of the VSME refers to the inclusion of additional entity-specific information.
‘Depending on the type of activities carried out by the undertaking, the inclusion of
additional information (metrics and/or narrative disclosures) not covered in this [draft]
Standard is appropriate in order to disclose sustainability issues that are common in the
undertaking’s sector (i.e. typically encountered by businesses or entities operating within
a specific industry or field) or that are specific to the undertaking, as this supports the
preparation of relevant, faithful, comparable, understandable and verifiable information.
Appendix B provides a list of possible sustainability issues.’
BC70. This component was not significantly changed following the public consultation. The
inclusion of the entity-specific component was extensively discussed by EFRAG SR TEG
and the SRB. Some initially supported this exclusion to avoid increasing the costs of
preparation with the related judgement that the entity-specific component entails. Others
supported such inclusion only on a voluntary basis. Finally, EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB
agreed to include the entity-specific component given its importance particularly to add the
sector-specific element. Therefore, the VSME refers to ‘issues that are common in the
undertaking’s sector’. This approach was confirmed by the public consultation.
BC71. As a result of the public consultation, once the standard is released by the European
Commission, EFRAG may also develop a set of SME guidance of sustainability issues per
sector. EFRAG could cover this as part of the ongoing multi-annual sector programme.
Indeed, the stakeholder’s engagement and public consultation have shown that corporate
clients may require additional specific data for certain sectors and therefore already signal
that this dimension to SMEs may be useful.
BC72. This is relevant to both the Basic Module and in the Comprehensive Module. For the latter,
an entity-specific consideration related to Scope 3 GHG emissions has been introduced,
especially as indirect emissions are particularly relevant to certain sectors. This approach
was confirmed during the public consultation. GHG scope 3 emission is not a requirement
for VSME unless the undertaking decides considering the sector, to report under the
Comprehensive module.
BC73. Following the public consultation, an additional paragraph has been added, which clarifies
that for any of the metrics of the Standard, the reporting undertaking may provide additional
qualitative information to complement disclosure’s metrics: ‘The undertaking may
complement the metrics from the Basic and Comprehensive modules with additional
qualitative and/or quantitative information, where appropriate, in accordance with
paragraph 10 above.’ This was reviewed and welcomed by EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB.
Comparative information
BC74. Following the public consultation, SR TEG and the SRB, decided to move the paragraph
on comparative information to the principles part of the Standard. This was done to ensure
that this principle on comparability is applied throughout the standard and not merely to
the Basic Module. The inclusion of comparative information adds to the relevance and
comparability of the information across periods. However, for simplification purposes, such
a disclosure containing comparative information would only be provided from the second
year of reporting. This principle is now in paragraph 12 of the VSME.
December 2024 Page 20 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
If applicable principle
BC75. Paragraph 13 indicates that the disclosures of the Standard are to be reported only ‘if
applicable’ to the undertaking’s circumstances. This important simplification was
introduced following feedback during the standard-setting process. The reason is that the
performance of a materiality analysis would be too complex for micro-undertakings given
the judgement and sophistication required in contrast to their average complexity and
capabilities. This is to guide micro-undertakings and other SMEs in assessing and filtering
whether the disclosure requirement applies to their circumstances or not.
BC76. During the public consultation, most respondents agreed with the ‘if applicable’ principle,
stating this was a useful approach to replacing materiality. Various respondents asked to
clarify the meaning of ‘if applicable’ within the Standard. It was also requested to extend
the ‘if applicable’ principle to other modules of the Standard and not solely to the Basic
Module.
BC77. Following these comments, SR TEG and the SRB agreed to extend the ‘if applicable’
principle to the Comprehensive Module (as the materiality analysis is removed) and to
clarify in paragraph 13 of the VSME that omitting an ‘if applicable’ disclosure, when
considered not applicable, is a principle applicable to both the Basic and Comprehensive
Modules.
Inclusion of subsidiaries in the reported data
BC78. This paragraph recommends that the undertaking prepares its sustainability report on a
consolidated basis (i.e., including the information of its subsidiaries), where relevant.
BC79. In the public consultation, most respondents across the three categories (preparers, users
and others) agreed with the proposal to report on a consolidated basis. However, SME
associations demanded more flexibility for preparers when choosing whether to include
subsidiaries.
BC80. In addition, as a result of the public consultation, SR TEG and the SRB agreed to add a
second paragraph to this principle, exempting SMEs from reporting if their parent
undertaking includes the subsidiary/subsidiaries in their consolidated report.
Timing and location of the sustainability report
BC81. Paragraph 16 ensures that the undertaking has the option of publishing its sustainability
report either as a separate section of the management report or as a different document.
This is to reflect the different legal regimes in European Member States.
BC82. In the public consultation, respondents were specifically asked whether they agreed with
the timing and location principle of the ED. SMEs (preparers) asked for more flexibility as
a report based on a yearly basis may add significant costs to preparation for SMEs. At the
same time, the majority of users confirmed that the sustainability report shall be prepared
on an annual basis (in alignment with the Pillar 3 framework).
BC83. Following these comments, the SRB and SR TEG have clarified the timing and location of
the sustainability report (paragraph 16). Reporting undertakings are now requested to
report on an annual basis, if their business partners request them to do so. However, it has
also been specified that if the data does not change from the previous reporting period,
the reporting undertaking may refer to the previous reporting period and mention so within
the disclosure. Additionally, as a result of the clarification of the objectives of this Standard
in BC4, with the primary objective being the ability to respond to a business counterparty’s
requests, paragraph 17 of the VSME specifies that the reporting undertaking may decide
to make the report available to the public.
December 2024 Page 21 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Cross references to EMAS
BC84. In the public consultation, respondents indicated that the Eco-Management and Audit
Scheme (EMAS) is too complex for SMEs and should therefore not be referenced. During
multiple SR TEG meetings, the inclusion of EMAS references was discussed, and
diverging opinions emerged. Some SR TEG and SRB members supported the mention of
EMAS, but SME representatives were strongly against it on the grounds of EMAS being
too complex and not widely used by SMEs. The references to EMAS in paragraph 18 in
relation to incorporation by reference as well as in other disclosures were therefore
removed. Moreover, the reason for rejecting this suggestion is that VSME is a demand
driven tool and users will need to identify the VSME information as a coherent set of
disclosures. Integrating it with other reports would risk obscuring the information requested
by counterparties in the VSME. In addition, there is full flexibility as to where to locate
VSME report, i.e. as an attachment to the management report, when prepared, or to the
financial statements, or in a separate document. Nothing prevents a company from
attaching the VSME report to another report. Finally, there is provision for incorporation by
reference in paragraph 18, which allows items from another report to be incorporated in
VSME thus avoiding double reporting. While exploring the possible integration of EMAS
and VSME disclosures is out of the current mandate received by EFRAG, it is an element
that the EC could potentially explore in the future.
Classified and sensitive information, and information on intellectual property, know-how or
results of innovation
BC85. Some consider that for SMEs the issue of sensitive information may be proportionally more
important compared to large undertakings given that the latter have more means to invest
in innovative technology, products and solutions. For small start-ups, intellectual property
may even be a pervasive competitive advantage.
BC86. During the public consultation, there was a request to improve and clarify the definition of
‘sensitive information’ and to allow for more flexibility. Following this comment, the EFRAG
Secretariat initially proposed to leave the current phrasing unchanged. However, during an
SR TEG discussion it was suggested to delete the two conditions (a and b) of former
paragraph 16 of the ED arguing that these two former conditions are appropriate for
compulsory reporting but not for voluntary reporting. This change was tested and
welcomed by both banking and SME associations in the post-consultation workshops.
Following this, this principle has been updated as follows: ‘When the provision of the
disclosures in this [draft] Standard would require disclosing classified or sensitive
information, the undertaking may omit such information. If the undertaking decides to omit
such information, it shall simply state that is the case under disclosure B 1 (see paragraph
24)’. This has been reiterated in the Basic Module, disclosure B1 – Basis for preparation,
in paragraph 24(b).
Coherence and linkages with disclosures in financial statements
BC87. Following discussions held at SR TEG, it was decided to expand the scope of this principle
to the entire Standard. This principle in the ED was previously only applicable to the
Narrative-PAT and Business Partners Modules of the ED. The content did not change from
the ED. The decision was taken at SR TEG level and approved by the SRB based on the
need to expand the scope of this principle to the entire Standard.
Basic module
BC88.
‘If applicable’/
Disclosure Paragraph always to be reported
reference on/
may disclosure
Always to be reported
24
on
B1 – Basis for Preparation
25 If applicable
December 2024 Page 22 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
B2 - Practices, policies and future initiatives 26, 27, 28 If applicable
for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy
Always to be
29 reported, breakdown
if available
B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
Always to be reported
30, 31
on
B4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 32 If applicable
33 If applicable
B5 – Biodiversity
34 May disclosure
Always to be reported
35
on
B6 – Water
36 If applicable
37, 38 (c) If applicable
B7 – Resource use, circular economy and
waste management Always to be reported
38 (a)(b)
on
Always to be reported
39 (a), 39 (b)
on
If applicable
39 (c)
B8 – Workforce – General characteristics
To be reported on
40 when above the
threshold
Always to be reported
B9 – Workforce – Health and safety 41
on
Always to be reported
42 (a), 42 (c), 42(d)
on
B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, collective
bargaining and training To be reported on
42 (b) when above the
threshold
B11 – Convictions and fines for corruption
43 If applicable
and bribery
Basic Module – General information
B1 – Basis for preparation
BC89. This disclosure has been complemented with additional metrics following the public
consultation. The previous datapoints already included in the VSME ED as part of this
disclosure have been kept. B1 (paragraph 24) continues to ask for the modules that the
undertaking is reporting on. The Basic Module remains the entry level and the pre-requisite
for all reporting undertakings.
December 2024 Page 23 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC90. With regard to the additional datapoints, a total of eight new metrics have been added to
B1 because they were requested by users in the public consultations. The additional
metrics are the following: 1) the undertaking’s legal form, 2) the NACE sector classification
code(s), 3) size of balance sheet (in euro), 4) turnover (in euro), 5) number of employees
in full time equivalents (FTEs) or headcount, 6) country of primary operations and location
of significant asset(s), 7) geolocation of sites owned, leased or managed, and 8) ESG
certificates (if any). SR TEG and the SRB decided to add the geolocation datapoint directly
in B1 as a way of covering banks’ requests for geolocation data in disclosures B5 –
Biodiversity and disclosure C4 – Climate risks. By requesting geolocation directly in B1, a
double disclosure scenario is avoided. For those additional datapoints, specific guidance
has been added, including a table to help preparers structure their disclosure of
information. This table was tested in the post-consultation workshops with users and
preparers was well supported. The SRB discussed the geolocation as it may be a sensitive
datapoint but concluded that, considering the primary function of the VSME of a bilateral
exchange of information and considering the clause on sensitive information whereby the
undertaking may omit this datapoint, it agreed to keep it as important for the users.
BC91. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 68 to 77 of the VSME.
B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy
BC92. This disclosure has changed significantly following the public consultation. During the
public consultation, users/banks requested to expand the scope of former B2 to cover
policies and future initiatives beside practices.
BC93. This request was accompanied with user concerns over the Narrative-PAT Module, which
was found to be overly complex and lacking comparability given its purely narrative nature.
Despite these general concerns with the Narrative-PAT Module, former disclosures N3
(Management of material sustainability matters) and N5 (Governance: responsibilities in
relation to sustainability matters) were considered essential by users and feasible by most
preparers. Hence, users/banks recommended relocating those two disclosures (N3 and
N5) in B2 in a simplified, non-purely narrative format.
BC94. EFRAG SR TEG approved the recommendation to incorporate former N3 and N5 into B2.
Banking associations and SME representatives supported the revised disclosure B2 as
well as the corresponding table during post-consultation workshops in September 2024.
BC95. The EFRAG SRB subsequently discussed whether having a semi-narrative descriptive
component in the Basic Module was appropriate. Some SRB members raised concerns
about the potential costs for preparation that semi-narrative disclosures may have on
SMEs. Disclosure B2 was ultimately approved by the EFRAG SRB under the condition
that the descriptive components be moved to the Comprehensive Module (see C2 –
Description of practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more
sustainable economy).
BC96. As a result, the final version of B2 requires that undertakings state whether they have
practices, policies or future initiatives in place and whether they are supported by targets.
Undertakings may refer to the list of sustainability issues in Appendix B, which reflects the
ten sustainability matters found in ESRS Set 1 and may use the table in the guidance,
which includes ‘yes/no’ questions, to fulfil disclosure B2. On ‘current practices’, B2 retains
the original wording.
BC97. The disclosure of current practices, along with current polices, future initiatives and targets,
aims to help business partners assess SMEs’ level of maturity and engagement with
sustainability matters. The term ‘practices’ was introduced as a simplification, recognising
that SMEs often operate with informal practices or future initiatives rather than formalised
policies.
BC98. Additional guidance related to value chain workers, affected communities and end
consumers was created for B2 to illustrate that this disclosure covers the SFDR PAI 11
from Table 1 in relation to the lack of processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor
compliance with UNGP and OECD MNE. It was important to make such connection and
avoid duplication as a minority of EFRAG SRB members considered that C6 was to be
modified to include the aforementioned groups of affected stakeholders.
December 2024 Page 24 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC99. The EFRAG Secretariat will develop guidance for SMEs on the list of possible
actions/policies for SMEs covering the ten sustainability issues and provide relevant
examples of impacts on workers in the value chain and affected communities. Additionally,
the guidance will include a list of sustainability matters per sector.
BC100. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 78 to 80 of the VSME.
Basic Module – Environmental metrics
BC101. The VSME has been developed as an independent standard, developed specifically for
the complexity and needs of non-listed SMEs and not as a simplification of the
corresponding disclosure requirements in ESRS Set 1. However, consistency with ESRS
concepts has been maintained to the maximum extent possible without compromising on
simplification, including language.
B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
BC102. Energy and greenhouse gas emission disclosure requirements are essential in a
sustainability report, given the relevance of climate change and the strong link between
energy use and emissions. This is present in all 12 of the current questionnaires analysed
(refer to BC64) and was confirmed by the public consultation and the field tests.
BC103. This disclosure also corresponds to SFDR PAI indicators, which were confirmed as
essential elements to consider during the public consultation and field test. In addition,
during the public consultation, users (banks) indicated the relevance of this datapoint from
a Pillar 2 perspective according to 23(a)(vi) of EBA/CP/2024/02. The information on energy
consumption required in paragraph 29 was guided by the SFDR PAI indicator 5 from Table
1 and indicator 5 from Table 2 (Annex 1).
BC104. Total energy consumption is understood as final energy consumption by the undertaking,
i.e. the energy entering organisational boundaries. As with ESRS E1, if the company
converts one energy type into another, the energy form to be considered is the one that
has entered the boundaries of the company. For example, if an SME uses a gas boiler to
produce hot water, the energy consumption is that of gas rather than hot water, which is
the final energy carrier.
BC105. The main challenge for energy was to balance meaningful disclosures, including relevant
breakdowns on the different types of energy used and the related cost of preparation.
Therefore, detailed breakdowns were previously requested in addition to total energy, such
as by fossil fuel energy types (e.g. gasoline, diesel, coal) and electricity per utility bills
further split between renewable and non-renewable electricity. Other forms of energy (e.g.
biomass solid fuels) were decided to be reported in total, given that these were expected
to be relatively minor portions of the overall consumption of energy by SMEs.
BC106. The table with the energy consumption breakdown is the result of public consultation
requests from preparers to reformulate requirements, allowing for a clearer split between
non-renewable and renewable energy sources. Users and SR TEG members supported
the reporting in such tabular format.
BC107. During the public consultation, preparers suggested including additional datapoints on the
energy performance certificates of buildings and on vehicle emission standards. However,
users recommended their deletion on the basis that energy performance certificates are
only needed for buildings used as collateral for a loan and requested bilaterally in the
mortgage files. SR TEG agreed on removing such datapoints from the Standard as they
were not meaningful to banks.
BC108. The initial ‘if available’ condition was replaced with ‘if the undertaking can obtain the
necessary information’.
BC109. The information on GHG emissions required in paragraph 30 was guided by SFDR PAI
indicator 1 (Table 1 of Annex 1). In this context, it was considered that Scope 1 and
location-based Scope 2 (in line with the GHG Protocol and ISO 14064-1) should be
minimum requirements. Market-based Scope 2 figures are provided on a voluntary basis
(‘may’).
December 2024 Page 25 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC110. The information on GHG intensity required in paragraph 31 was guided by the SFDR PAI
indicator 3 (Table 1 of Annex 1). During the public consultation, users confirmed the need
for this requirement. SR TEG further recommended the inclusion of the footnote referring
to the automated calculation of the GHG intensity ratio through the future online tool that
will probably be developed after the publication of the VSME Standard, given that both the
numerator (GHG emissions) and denominator (turnover) are provided by the undertaking
through the VSME Standard.
BC111. After the public consultation and upon a suggestion by users, the guidance has been
further improved to clarify reporting on renewable and non-renewable energy sources. In
addition to that, the inclusion of a summary of methodological information from the GHG
Protocol, including examples of tools developed by private and public initiatives to help
undertakings in developing their GHG emissions inventory, was the result of a suggestion
by SR TEG. The SRB additionally suggested to provide more flexibility to reporting
organisations in the choice of reporting frameworks to be used, which resulted in
referencing ISO 14064-1 (without requiring certification) as an alternative.
BC112. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 81 to 109 of the VSME.
B4 – Pollution of air, water and soil
BC113. The information on pollutant emissions required in paragraph 32 is aligned with the SFDR
PAI indicator 8 from Table 1 as well as indicators 1, 2 and 3 from Table 2 (Annex 1), as
per sector-agnostic ESRS. This disclosure is included in seven of the twelve
questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64). The disclosure on pollution is limited to
quantitative information on emissions into air, water and soil, including the type of pollutant.
These requirements were framed as applicable only to those undertakings already
reporting on pollution emissions and allow for a direct reference or link to pollution
information that is already published by the undertaking.
BC114. Initially, under this disclosure the undertaking was called to report on its pollutants only if
this was already required by existing laws, such as the IED or E-PRTR (as per sector-
agnostic ESRS) or other frameworks, such as Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
(EMAS). After the public consultation, SR TEG agreed to remove from the main text any
reference to or examples of specific pieces of legislation or Environmental Management
Systems (EMS) such as EMAS and rather to mention and explain them in the guidance,
including additional examples of EMS (i.e. ISO), to avoid the sole focus on EMAS. This
was in response to concerns raised by preparers that such references could potentially
lead to double reporting due to unclear instructions. Specifically, regarding EMAS, SR TEG
concluded that EMAS is overall too complex for SMEs and that it should therefore not be
the sole focus of reporting. Additionally, the voluntary qualifier was included in
correspondence with the EMS reference to address a recommendation by preparers. SR
TEG further suggested better accounting for the local nature of pollution impacts by
including reporting according to ‘other national regulations’ in addition to the generic
qualifier ‘law’. Finally, it was noted by users during the public consultation that the original
‘if applicable’ condition was unclear, which led to a rephrasing of the requirement
compared to the VSME ED to make the applicability condition more explicit by moving it to
the first part of the disclosure.
BC115. The guidance, initially only providing an example of table for reporting and featuring
information on the IED, the E-PRTR and EMAS, was updated to the new amendments
(IED 2.0 and IEPT) and was further enhanced based on public consultation feedback. The
new elements provided are a clarification on reporting for undertakings in shared offices
as well as examples of air, water and soil pollutants and their occurrences. In this case SR
TEG noted that a full list of pollutants would only overwhelm preparers and users and,
hence, agreed to only list the main ones per each environmental media, as per content in
the main pieces of EU law.
BC116. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 110 to 133 of the VSME.
December 2024 Page 26 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
B5 – Biodiversity
BC117. The disclosure on biodiversity has been changed only marginally compared to the VSME
ED. In fact, the field test and public consultation widely confirmed that this disclosure is
essential for users. In addition, the disclosure is included in four of the twelve analysed
questionnaires (refer to BC64). The introductory paragraph that was present in the VSME
ED was deleted as no disclosure requirements were attached to it and was therefore
perceived as unclear by preparers. For the rest, the disclosure has been limited to
quantitative metrics related to land use of the sites in which the undertaking operates and
that are located in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. Land use metrics are used as
proxies of the undertaking’s biodiversity impact. Separate metrics per each site are
required. These metrics have to be reported only if applicable, i.e. if the undertaking has
impacts on biodiversity or is potentially exposed to them, e.g. by having operations in or
near biodiversity sensitive areas. Ambiguity existed on how to assess the proximity to such
areas. During the public consultation, preparers and users raised the issue of the definition
of ‘near’ biodiversity sensitive area. Hence, to simplify the definition of ‘near’, it was clarified
in the ‘Defined terms’ (Appendix A) that it refers to areas inside, overlapping with (partially
included) or adjacent to such a biodiversity sensitive area. Land-use footprint metrics are
aligned with the reporting metrics used in EMAS8. Consistent reporting of land-use metrics
over time will also allow the evaluation of the undertaking’s land-use change. The
requirement corresponds to the SFDR PAI indicator 7 (Table 1 of Annex 1).
BC118. Guidance has been further simplified to support the preparation of this disclosure.
Paragraph 135 of the VSME has been introduced to provide tools that can help to identify
protected areas and biodiversity sensitive areas. The reference to EMAS has been
replaced in the guidance with summarised information on land use from the EMAS user
guide to increase understandability for SMEs by avoiding language that is too technical
and external references (requiring separate searches by SMEs), as requested in the public
consultation and agreed by SR TEG.
BC119. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 134 to 141 of the VSME.
B6 – Water
BC120. Initially, this requirement was part of disclosure requirement B7 (relating to the circular
economy aspect), but it was eventually decided to present it as a stand-alone element of
disclosure. In terms of selected metrics, the requirements to disclose water withdrawal and
water consumption were included to be consistent with the sector-agnostic ESRS and were
found in nine of the twelve analysed questionnaires (refer to BC64). In addition, during the
public consultation, users (banks) highlighted the relevance of this disclosure from a Pillar
2 perspective according to 23(a)(v) of EBA/CP/2024/02. An SR TEG discussion took place
on the use of different terms, namely ‘water use’ instead of ‘water withdrawal’ and ‘water
consumption’, the latter eventually chosen as the most understandable term for SMEs. It
was concluded that the term ’water use’ lacks definition in major corporate water reporting
frameworks, such as the sector-agnostic ESRS, GRI, CEO Water Mandate, Water
Footprint Network, CDP, WRI, IPIECA and SASB. Additionally, introducing new
terminology is not desirable even if ’water use’ or ’water consumption’ may be understood
as equivalent to the concept of ’water withdrawal’. ‘Water use’ can also be understood as
the accounting of the multiple water flows within an undertaking – yet another new concept.
Therefore, the definition of ’water withdrawal’ in the sector-agnostic ESRS was used. The
disclosure on ‘water consumption’ was retained given its importance despite the fact that
its applicability may vary among undertakings. This applies specifically in connection to
production processes. The major change to the VSME coming from the public consultation
consists in the replacement of the ‘if applicable’ expression with the actual conditions of
applicability for SMEs. Water intensity was also considered for inclusion as an additional
advanced datapoint to the Basic Module; however, after a workshop with users and
consultation with SR TEG it was deemed not relevant and hence removed from the draft.
8 EMAS Regulation Annex IV
December 2024 Page 27 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC121. Specific guidance was introduced to clarify the concepts of water consumption, water
withdrawal and water discharge. A specific sub-section detailing water withdrawal in areas
of high-water stress was incorporated with guidance on how to identify these areas.
Following the public consultation, the applicability of the disclosure requirement on water
consumption as opposed to that of water withdrawal was specified, including calculation
guidance in the context of shared offices. A scheme on the use of water utility bills was
also added to support the determination of water consumption.
BC122. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 142 to 158 of the VSME.
B7 – Resource use, circular economy, and waste management
BC123. The information on circular economy and waste management required in paragraphs 37
and 38 (a)(b) is aligned with the requirements in the sector-agnostic ESRS, paragraph
38(c), and is based on EMAS, and the coverage of hazardous and radioactive waste is in
line with the SFDR PAI indicator 9 (Table 1 of Annex 1). The latter information was
previously addressed under the former disclosure BP6, which has now been merged into
this disclosure. This disclosure was requested in nine of the twelve questionnaires
analysed (refer to BC64).
BC124. This disclosure was initially mainly narrative, reflecting the fact that generic disclosures on
resource use management, waste management and application of circular economy
principles are narrative in nature. However, some quantitative disclosures have been
added given their relevance to users. Consequently, a disclosure on the recycled and
recyclable content of goods and materials (and their packaging) was added and limited to
specified sectors (manufacturing, construction and/or packaging processes) to reduce
preparation costs. For all undertakings, the total annual waste generation (and breakdown
by type) and the total annual waste diverted to recycling or reuse were included. The
breakdown between ‘non-hazardous’ and ‘hazardous’ waste enhances transparency. After
the public consultation, this disclosure was moderately adapted as per the changes
described below.
BC125. Following the public consultation, it was confirmed at SR TEG that paragraph 37 of the
VSME was an initial essential element of this disclosure, allowing SMEs to provide
additional information on circularity principles. Nevertheless, it required some refinement
as it was deemed too vague, which led to the current reformulation that focuses on the
application or not of circular economy principles as well as on a description of this
application.
BC126. Respondents to the public consultation also noted that the original datapoints on recycled
and recyclable content in products and packaging were only applicable to certain
undertakings, which was also confirmed at SR TEG (e.g. recycled content being feasible
to obtain for undertakings producing their own products). To simplify these requirements,
they were then replaced with one datapoint from EMAS on the annual mass flow of relevant
materials used. This datapoint was further reformulated as a result of discussions at SR
TEG to reflect the sectors that use mass flows within the scope of this sub-paragraph and
to place an emphasis on significant material flows.
BC127. The previous disclosure BP6 on radioactive waste was merged with this disclosure after
users confirmed its importance in the public consultation. Preparers also confirmed its
feasibility. SR TEG proposed to make the requirement on radioactive waste a specification
of hazardous waste. For this reason, a clarification was added in the guidance rather than
in the main text.
BC128. After the public consultation, guidance on circular economy principles (based on definitions
of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, with key principles from the European Commission and
on how to present information concerning generated waste), was complemented with
further indications and explanations of the terms mass flow and hazardous waste (for
which pictograms were also included). Concerning waste directed to recycling or reuse,
since preparers noted some lack of clarify in the formulation of this requirement, guidance
was hence provided to specify which type or recycling or reuse is expected. As for units of
weight for waste generation and waste recycling or use, respondents to the public
consultation noted that the prior reference to volumes was inconsistent with SFDR and
requested further guidance. It was then allowed to use both weight and volume in the
guidance.
December 2024 Page 28 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC129. The SRB further recommended removing paragraph 38 of the VSME from undertakings
generating only household waste (e.g. a pizza restaurant, an office) by introducing this
flexibility into the guidance. This was done to reduce the potential costs of preparation for
non-listed SMEs.
BC130. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 159 to 174 of the VSME.
Basic Module – Social metrics
B8 – Workforce – General characteristics
BC131. This disclosure requirement is limited to the total number of employees (by headcount or
full-time equivalent) broken down by type of employment contract, gender and country.
The public consultation raised concerns regarding the country breakdown datapoint, with
numerous requests for clarification. Therefore, a specific reference to the country of the
employment contract was added to clarify what country breakdown referred to. Given that
the breakdown by country applies to undertakings that operate in more than one country,
this is considered an ‘if applicable’ type of disclosure given that micro- undertakings are
often based exclusively in one country and would not fulfil this breakdown. The types of
contracts are limited to permanent and temporary. The guidance contains suggested
tables to present the requested information on employee characteristics. The analysis of
current business partners questionnaires (see BC64) showed that these are frequent data
requirements, as they were included in eight of the twelve questionnaires analysed.
BC132. Feedback from the public consultation also contained many requests from users and
others to include an additional datapoint on the employee turnover rate in the disclosure
requirement. The post-consultation workshop with banking associations in September
(2024) confirmed the relevance of this additional datapoint. After receiving further input
from SME associations in a separate workshop in September (2024), EFRAG SR TEG
approved the new datapoint with a threshold of 50-employees. The guidance was adapted
accordingly and can be found from paragraphs 175 to 183 of the VSME.
B9 – Workforce – Health and safety
BC133. The disclosure requirement on health and safety is limited to information on the number
and rate of recordable work-related accidents as well as the number of fatalities resulting
from work-related injuries and work-related ill health (SFDR PAI datapoints in ESRS S1-
14 (b) and (c)). The analysis of current business partners’ questionnaires (see BC64)
includes this information as this disclosure was found in three out of the twelve
questionnaires analysed.
BC134. One EFRAG SR TEG member expressed reservations on the inclusion of commuting
accidents as part of the disclosure requirement as the disclosure may differ based on
national law. The guidance clarifies that accidents while travelling (outside of the SME’s
responsibility) are classified as work-related or not based on the applicable national
legislation, which may vary across countries. A specific question was added to the public
consultation in relation to commuting accidents to be work-related accidents. Guidance on
the relevant formula and a numerical example was provided. The source of this disclosure
is ESRS S1-14, which is an SFDR datapoint. It is based on the requirements from Article
29(b) of the CSRD together with the ILO Convention and OECD Guidelines.
BC135. EFRAG SR TEG and the EFRAG SRB concluded that the metrics on health and safety are
mature within the reporting of undertakings, given the current requirements (Regulation
(EC) No 1338/2008 on Community statistics on public health and health and safety at work
and Framework Directive 89/391/EEC on measure to encourage improvements in the
safety and health of workers at work).
BC136. Feedback from the public consultation included suggestions to add an additional
paragraph addressing health and safety for non-employees. However, in September 2024,
EFRAG SR TEG decided not to include this additional datapoint on non-employees.
BC137. Additional guidance has been included to support the preparation of this disclosure in
paragraphs 184 to 191 of the VSME.
December 2024 Page 29 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining, and training
BC138. The analysis of current questionnaires (see BC64) highlighted that more than half included
disclosure requirements on remuneration, collective bargaining and training. Therefore,
these aspects have been included in the ED.
BC139. On remuneration, the initial disclosure required the ratio of entry-level wage to minimum
wage to address adequate wages. However, feedback from the public consultation
indicated that this metric was unclear, prompting several stakeholders to request
clarification. In response, a proposal was presented to EFRAG SR TEG to modify the
datapoint to ‘whether the employees receive a pay that is above the minimum wage set by
law or through a collective bargaining agreement’. SR TEG members approved this
revision with the condition that the following specification is included ‘equal or above the
applicable minimum wage for the country it reports in’. Post-consultation workshops with
banking associations and SME representatives in September (2024) confirmed the
relevance of the updated datapoint. The guidance was adapted accordingly.
BC140. The gender pay gap between female and male employees metric was considered most
pertinent for the largest companies in scope, leading to a threshold of 150 employees set
to ensure appropriate representation. Additionally, the information required by this
datapoint aligns with an SFDR PAI (Table I, indicator #12). Stemming from the public
consultation and following SR TEG discussions and post-consultation workshops, it was
agreed to seek further alignment with the Pay Transparency Directive9, which will require
undertakings with at least 100 employees to report on the gender pay gap starting from 7
June 2031.
BC141. Whilst the nature or scope of collective bargaining agreements may vary across countries,
the definition for collective bargaining in ESRS S1 covers the main types of agreements in
the Member States of the European Union and is applicable to the VSME context.
Therefore, EFRAG SR TEG and the EFRAG SRB agreed to include the percentage of
employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Freedom of association and
collective bargaining are fundamental rights enshrined in the international and European
human rights instruments referenced in the CSRD, including in UN UDHR Article 23, the
EU Charter of Fundamental Rights Article 12 and the ILO Convention 87. This disclosure
demonstrates the extent to which these rights have been exercised to determine the
working conditions of the employees of an SME.
BC142. The datapoint on training is consistent with Article 29b 2 (b) (i) of the CSRD. Education,
training and lifelong training is also defined in Principle 1 of the European Pillar of Social
Rights. The public consultation indicated that the concept of informal training lacked clarity.
To address this, EFRAG SR TEG agreed to simplify the disclosure by limiting it to the
average number of annual training hours per employee and disaggregated by gender.
BC143. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure is available in paragraphs
192 to 205 of the VSME.
Basic Module – Governance metrics
B11 – Convictions and fines for corruption and bribery
BC144. This disclosure remains unchanged from the ED. The analysis of current questionnaires
highlighted that four of the twelve questionnaires included similar disclosures. One EFRAG
SR TEG member disagreed with the inclusion of this datapoint, as it would be a form of
self-incrimination, and he considered that there are no tools available for SMEs to deal
with corruption and bribery. However, other members considered the argument of self-
incrimination not valid after a court of law reaches a guilty verdict. In addition, they
considered that it would be important for the transparency as a way to fight against
corruption and bribery to keep this datapoint. They also considered that this is an SFDR
PAI datapoint. A specific question was included in the consultation on this disclosure.
9 Directive (EU) 2023/970, Article 9.3 and 9.4
December 2024 Page 30 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC145. During the public consultation it surfaced that for the majority of the preparers the
disclosure was feasible, but could possibly pose confidentiality issues. This confidentiality
concern led some prepares to state that they would prefer to delete the disclosure despite
it being feasible to disclose on. Banks and large undertakings confirmed that this disclosure
is essential. To address the confidentiality issue that was also stressed by SMEs
representatives during the workshop with SME representatives after the consultation, it
was clarified that the primary purpose of VSME is the provision of data to a counterparty
and making the VSME report public is up to the discretion of the reporting SME.
BC146. Based on the outcome of the public consultation, it was decided to leave the content of
this disclosure the same as in the ED.
BC147. Additional guidance has been included to support the preparation of this disclosure in
paragraphs 206 to 209 of the VSME.
Basic Module: deleted disclosure from the ED
Former Social Metric Disclosure B11 – Workers in the value chain, affected
communities, consumers and end-users
BC148. The initial voluntary disclosure was removed from the VSME after the public consultation
emphasised the challenge this datapoint presented for preparers. Additionally, the
workshop with banking associations and SME representatives in September (2024) further
confirmed that this deletion was appropriate. Nonetheless, the sustainability matters in
ESRS Set 1 AR 16, including those originally covered under B11 have been integrated into
the revised disclosure titled ‘B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning
towards a more sustainable economy’ as discussed and approved by EFRAG SR TEG.
Narrative-Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) Module
BC149. As explained in the introduction, the Narrative-PAT Module has been deleted from the
VSME as a result of the public consultation feedback. Former disclosure N1 – Strategy:
business model and sustainability – related initiatives, has been moved to disclosure C1 –
Strategy: business model and sustainability – related initiatives (Comprehensive Module).
Former disclosures N3 – Management of material sustainability matters, and N5 –
Governance: responsibilities in relation to sustainability matters has been simplified,
reformulated and included within B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for
transitioning towards a more sustainable economy and C2 – Description of practices,
policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable economy.
Comprehensive Module
BC150.
‘If applicable’/
Paragraph always to be reported
Disclosure
reference on /
may disclose
Always to be reported
47 (a) (b) (c)
C1 – Strategy: Business Model and on
Sustainability – Related Initiatives
47 (d) If applicable
48 If applicable
C2 – Description of practices, policies and
future initiatives for transitioning towards a
more sustainable economy If applicable + may
49
disclosure
54, 56 If applicable
C3 – GHG reduction targets and climate
transition If applicable + may
55
disclosure
December 2024 Page 31 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
57 If applicable
C4 – Climate risks
58 May disclosure
C5– Workforce (General) Additional May disclosure +
59, 60
characteristics threshold included
Always to be reported
61 (a), 61(c)
C6 – Additional own workforce information - on
Human rights policies and processes
61(b) If applicable
Always to be reported
62(a)
on
C7 – Severe negative human rights incidents
62(b)(c) If applicable
63 If applicable
C8 – Revenues from certain sectors and
exclusion from EU reference benchmarks Always to be reported
64
on
C9 – Gender diversity ratio in governance
65 If applicable
body
BC151. Paragraph 44 explains that the disclosures in this module have been included on the
expectation that they reflect the data requests from lenders, investors and corporates to
their SMEs clients and suppliers that are additional to the ones included in the Basic
Module. This assumption has been confirmed during the public consultation.
BC152. As a starting point the SFDR PAI Table 1, the Benchmark Regulation and EBA Pillar 3
datapoints were considered for this Module. SFDR PAI in Table 2 were excluded for
simplification reasons. While these indicators derive from the reporting obligations of
investors, they have been considered valid as a reference with which to report relevant
information on sustainability matters to all users. The outreach meetings (please refer to
Annex 5) allowed for the identification of the same datapoints in the Comprehensive
Module that could be added and others that could be removed (i.e. GHG and energy
intensity or exclusions from benchmark alignment).
BC153. Some stakeholders requested additional data points, such as taxonomy eligibility and
alignment. However, due to the complexity of such disclosures for SMEs and the lack of
existing adapted simplified tools or methodologies, EFRAG SR TEG and the SRB decided
to exclude the reference to an EU simplified taxonomy (see point on taxonomy) Please
note that the EU Platform on Sustainable Finance is currently investigating an adapted
methodology for SMEs10.
BC154. In the public consultation, corporates (as clients of non-listed SMEs) confirmed that their
needs correspond to the datapoints needed by financial market participants (SFDR PAI,
Pillar 3), as this allows them to manage sustainability in their supply chain. The same is
true for lenders, as the information is also used to assess the sustainability of SMEs when
managing the lending book.
10 European Commission, SMEs Relief Package, September 2023, page 16: ‘In particular, simplified approaches,
developed together with the Platform on Sustainable Finance, should allow non-listed SMEs to benefit from the use of the
taxonomy’.
December 2024 Page 32 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC155. Moreover, Appendix C (VSME) – dedicated to financial market participants that are users
of the information produced using this Standard – helps users to visualise which disclosure
requirements are SFDR, Benchmark Regulation or EBA Pillar 3 datapoints. Where
possible, consistent definitions with Set 1 were kept as only a minimum level of language
simplification was achieved (refer to Annex 7).
BC156. As explained in the introduction, the concept of materiality previously used in the ED for
this Module has now been replaced with the ‘if applicable’ principle. This was done
following the public consultation and is considered as a major simplification (see the point
on materiality in the introduction).
BC157. The analysis below explains the changes that have been applied to this Module, both
structurally and in terms of content.
Comprehensive Module – General information
C1 – Strategy: Business Model and Sustainability – Related Initiatives
BC158. This disclosure is new, it has been added following the public consultation. It is found in
ten of the twelve questionnaires that have been analysed (see BC64). As described in the
introduction, the Narrative-PAT Module was not supported in the public consultation (users
did not find it useful as it was not comparable, and SMEs found it too complex). However,
former disclosure N1 (Strategy: business model and sustainability-related initiatives) was
mostly supported as perceived feasible by preparers and needed by users. Hence, SR
TEG decided to keep this disclosure within the Standard. The SRB discussed whether the
relocation in B1 – Basis for preparation would not result in excessive costs of preparation
for SMEs. It finally decided to relocate this disclosure to the Comprehensive Module rather
than the Basic Module.
BC159. While the disclosure was relocated, the content of former N1 remains the same as in the
VSME ED, ensuring a meaningful description of the undertaking’s business model and of
the key elements of its strategy. However, contrary to ESRS Set 1, which refers to
elements of the undertaking’s strategy that relate to or impact sustainability matters, its
business model and its value chain, the VSME refers in general to strategy. It was
considered too complex for SMEs to specify the sustainability angle of its strategy. By
describing its main products and/or services, markets and business relationships, the
undertaking would already provide important information on the sustainability profile to
their business partners.
BC160. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in paragraph
212 of the VSME.
C2 – Description of practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a
more sustainable economy
BC161. This disclosure is new, and it has been added following the public consultation. As
described in the introduction and in the explanations provided under disclosure C2 –
Practices, Policies and future initiatives for transitioning to a more sustainable economy,
the SRB decided to keep elements of both former N3 – Management of material
sustainability matters and former N5 – Governance responsibilities in relation to
sustainability matters since they were considered important for users and feasible for
preparers. C2 contains the narrative elements that complement the disclosure under B2
on practices, policies and future initiatives in place. This semi-narrative description is
provided when the undertaking choses to use the Comprehensive Module. As a
simplification, the undertaking may use the table in the guidance (paragraph 213 in the
VSME) to describe practices and policies, whether there are targets associated and
whether the senior level is in charge. The SRB considered that those elements would be
better placed in the Comprehensive Module rather than in the Basic Module, which is the
entry-level module.
December 2024 Page 33 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Comprehensive Module – Environmental Metrics
Consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3 (Basic Module)
BC162. The VSME excludes the requirement to report absolute Scope 3 emissions under the Basic
Module (B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions) given the complexity and lack of
free available tools to SMEs. However, upon the recommendation of EFRAG SR TEG and
the SRB, an entity-specific consideration related to GHG Scope 3 emissions was included
in this module to encourage more advanced SMEs, or those in sectors where indirect
emissions may be more relevant, to disclose such information. The public consultation
confirmed the essential nature of Scope 3 emissions, while acknowledging the complexity
for SMEs. After an initial consideration to limit Scope 3 emissions to high climate impact
sectors, SR TEG members decided to keep the content of this disclosure as per the VSME
ED.
BC163. In the guidance, methodological instructions were added and, as per SR TEG and the
SRB’s suggestions, sectors with the highest likelihood of having significant Scope 3
emissions were indicated.
BC164. The GHG protocol Scope 3 emission categories were deemed potentially too complex for
SMEs, especially those that are smaller or lack experience in the reporting process. The
EFRAG SRB accepted that incorporating Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions could pose a
significant challenge for those in the intended scope of this Standard, in considering their
scale, resources, and maturity in reporting. Banks also indicated in outreaches that, in the
absence of tailored methodologies for SMEs, they prefer to rely on proxies and indirect
calculation to reduce additional preparatory costs for smaller clients. Therefore, Scope 3
was introduced as an element to be considered by undertakings as an additional entity-
specific element for more experienced SMEs (in the Comprehensive Module). In its
guidance, the VSME indicates the type of organisation for which Scope 3 emissions are
likely to be significant. However, due to the diverse nature of SMEs and the challenges
related to Scope 3, undertakings are advised to refer to the GHG Protocol and calculation
guidance.
BC165. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 214 and 215 of the VSME.
C3 – GHG reduction targets and climate transition
BC166. Following the public consultation, SR TEG agreed with merging the former disclosures
BP3 (GHG emissions reduction target) and BP4 (Transition plan for climate change
mitigation), and the title was adapted accordingly. In addition, this disclosure was
requested in seven of the twelve questionnaires analysed (see BC64), and in the public
consultation, users (banks) highlighted the relevance of this disclosure for ESG risk
management purposes according to 35(a) in EBA/CP/2024/02 with regard to portfolio
alignment.
BC167. This disclosure provides guidance for undertakings opting to enhance their Basic Module
B3 reporting. The EFRAG SRB agreed to include Scope 3 GHG emission reduction targets
when they do exist, in line with the consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under
B3 (Basic Module) in contrast to the initial recommendation by EFRAG SR TEG. Following
the public consultation, paragraph 54 was enhanced and refined to align with the sector-
agnostic ESRS on absolute value; make the requirements applicable to SMEs that have
already set targets and are dependent on their activities; require more precise information
on targets (target year, base year, units, etc.), in addition to the split by scope, to guide
SMEs in their reporting; and require information on the actions connected to emission
reduction, given their importance in establishing an emission reduction trajectory.
December 2024 Page 34 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC168. The datapoints on the transition plan are aligned with the Climate Benchmark Regulation
(see Annex 7). In addition, in the public consultation users (banks) highlighted the
relevance of this datapoint for ESG risk management according to 23(a)(ix) and 72(e) of
EBA/CP/2024/02. Compared to the VSME ED, it was decided after the public consultation,
following users’ requests, that the disclosure requirements in the transition plan should
only be applicable to high climate impact sectors. In response to a request to address the
complexity of transition plan requirements, these were made voluntary. Users and other
respondents to the public consultation deemed it important to extend the requirement to
cases in which undertakings do not have a transition plan in place yet to allow them to
indicate if and when the adoption would happen. Additionally, a connection was created
between transition plans and their contribution to GHG emission reduction. Preparers also
recommended to make this disclosure more proportionate by removing the reference to
the Paris Agreement.
BC169. A simplified explanation of the role of the transition plan for climate change mitigation,
along with the characteristics to create a credible transition pathway, has been provided in
the guidance. To enhance simplicity, this disclosure requirement does not consider
potential locked-in GHG emissions and the reference to the Taxonomy Regulation.
BC170. The guidance supporting the preparation of this disclosure was strengthened (with
additional material from SBTi for SMEs) on target-setting and target characteristics to
ensure credibility. The guidance now also includes a simple explanation of the emission
reduction challenges and the steps that undertakings can take to achieve them, with a few
practical examples, as per a request by field-test respondents. In addition, after the
publication of the VSME by the European Commission, EFRAG will work on an IG.
BC171. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 216 to 227 of the VSME.
C4 – Climate risks
BC172. This disclosure requirement was originally created as per the EBA Pillar 3 ESG
requirements on information regarding physical risks of banks’ clients for risk management
purposes (see Annex 7 for details) and in alignment with the disclosure of anticipated
financial impacts from material physical risks outlined in ESRS Set 1. This disclosure was
also requested in nine of the twelve questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64), and in the
public consultation, users (banks) highlighted the relevance of this disclosure from a Pillar
2 perspective according to 23(a)(i)(iii) (vi), (72)(g)(h), (31)(a), EBA/CP/2024/02. After the
public consultation, the disclosure was redrafted to respond to concerns of preparers and
users, which both deemed monetary information to be challenging to report. While users
recommended replacing the related requirements with geolocation information, preparers
advocated for a predominantly narrative type of disclosure, leaving to the users the role of
assessing their own clients’ risks. SR TEG eventually opted for the latter option, agreeing
with the EFRAG Secretariat on the fact that the VSME is devised to raise awareness in
managing environmental risks (among others) and that, by providing only geolocation
information, SMEs would remain passive in assessing those risks. The current datapoints
under paragraph 57 are the result of a proposal by SR TEG, which highlighted that the
information of this disclosure should also be related to the change management of the
SMEs themselves and that, therefore, a more approachable methodology should be
provided. SR TEG agreed to add a datapoint to allow SMEs the possibility to describe their
climate-related hazards and transition events. In addition, SR TEG also suggested to use
the term ‘exposure and sensitivity’ instead of ‘vulnerability’ in order to be aligned with the
sector-agnostic ESRS. The SRB supported the approach and the decisions to change the
title from ‘Physical risks from climate change’ to ‘Climate risks’. Finally, two additional
datapoints stemming from the public consultation, namely on insurance coverage and
building energy performance, were eventually removed at SR TEG as the first one
exceeding Set 1 and the second one was not fundamental to users.
BC173. Guidance in paragraphs 228 through 230 of the VME offers definitions and examples of
climate change-related physical risks. Upon SR TEG’s request, further guidance was
provided on the terms ‘climate-related hazards’, ‘climate-related transition events’, and
‘gross climate-related risks’.
December 2024 Page 35 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
Comprehensive Module – Social Metrics
C5 – Workforce (General) Additional characteristics
BC174. This disclosure requirement was introduced following feedback from the public
consultation.
BC175. During the consultation, users requested the inclusion of the percentage of female-to-male
staff in managerial roles. The relevance of this datapoint was later confirmed in the
workshop with banking associations in September (2024) and approved by EFRAG SR
TEG with the condition that it be voluntary and that a 50-employee threshold be applied.
BC176. Another request from the public consultation was to include the percentage of non-
employees. However, some SR TEG members expressed concerns about the complexity
of this datapoint for the Basic Module. As a result, it was moved to the Comprehensive
Module as a voluntary disclosure. EFRAG SR TEG approved this adjustment with the
condition of clarifying the terminology, opting for ‘number of self-employed without
personnel that are working for the undertaking’, and temporary workers provided by
undertakings primarily engaged in ‘employment activities’ instead of ‘non-employees’. The
EFRAG SRB approved the disclosure with the additional guidance on factors or aspects
that the SMEs should consider when deciding to disclose this ‘may’ datapoint.
BC177. The two datapoints outlined above reference ESRS Set 1 and were adapted to align with
the specific scope and requirements of SMEs.
BC178. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in
paragraphs 231 to 236 of the VSME.
C6 – Additional own workforce information - Human rights policies and processes
BC179. This disclosure was elaborated based on the previous ‘BP 7 – Alignment with
internationally recognised instruments’ and ‘BP 8 – Processes to monitor compliance and
mechanisms to address violations’; both SDFR PAI metrics from Table 1 (reference 10 for
violations and reference 11 for lack of processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor
compliance with UNGP and OECD MNE). This disclosure was requested in six of the
twelve questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64). Feedback from the public consultation
respondents and field-test participants, including preparers, users and others, indicated
that the complexity of these disclosures was excessive for SMEs. As a result, the
disclosures were streamlined into a simplified format that was user-friendly and made the
translation of the datapoint into information that could be easily aggregated for its users.
The new formulation includes a question on whether a code of conduct or human rights
policy exists for the undertaking’s own workforce, followed by a non-exhaustive list of
human rights topics that such a code of conduct or a human rights policy can address; the
human rights included are anchored in the SFDR PAIs in order to facilitate the connection
with the sustainable finance regulation. It also contains a question about the existence of
a complaints handling mechanism for the undertaking’s own workforce. This proposal was
approved at SR TEG and received strong support in the post-consultation workshops with
banking associations and SME representatives held in September (2024).
BC180. Some SRB members raised concerns regarding the scope of the disclosure and requested
to expand the contents of C6 to workers in the value chain, affected communities, and
consumers and end users, while others refuted such modifications. Differing views among
EFRAG SRB members resulted in a proposal from the EFRAG Secretariat to keep C6
unchanged while inserting additional guidance related to value chain workers, affected
communities and end consumers for B2. The proposal was endorsed by the EFRAG SRB.
BC181. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in paragraph
237 of the VSME.
December 2024 Page 36 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
C7 – Severe human rights incidents
BC182. Following a process similar to that for developing ‘C6 – Human rights policies and
processes’, this disclosure requirement was adapted from the previous ‘BP 9 – Violations
of OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises or the UN Guiding Principles (including
the principles and rights set out in the 8 fundamental conventions of the ILO Declaration
and the International Bill of Human Rights)’. This disclosure was requested in three of the
twelve questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64). Feedback from the public consultation and
field test coming from preparers, users and others highlighted that the disclosure’s
complexity was disproportionate for SMEs. Consequently, the text was streamlined into a
simplified format comprising a question on the existence of confirmed human rights
incidents along with a list of relevant human rights topics. This proposal was approved by
EFRAG SR TEG and received strong support from banking associations and SME
representatives alike during workshops held in September (2024). Additionally, the
disclosure includes a question on human rights incidents involving other affected
stakeholder groups, namely workers in the value chain, affected communities and
consumers and end users that was inserted as part of SR TEG approval process under
the formulation of ‘if the undertaking is aware of confirmed incidents’ in order to make it
proportionate to the resources that a SME has.
BC183. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure can be found in paragraph
238 of the VSME.
Comprehensive Module – Governance Metrics
C8 – Revenues from certain sectors and exclusion from EU reference benchmarks
BC184. This datapoint requires the undertaking to disclose whether they are active and the related
revenues from certain sectors. When comparing this disclosure with ESRS Set 1, the
taxonomy part of it was explicitly excluded from the methodological approach in the
Comprehensive Module (Annex 7). In addition, this disclosure was requested in five of the
twelve questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64).
BC185. The sectors have been identified as carrying sustainability risks according to defined
criteria based on certain legislation applicable to financial institutions. Therefore, lenders
and investors require this information along with large undertakings, which also confirmed
this datapoint during the public consultation.
BC186. During the public consultation, banks requested to include an additional datapoint for the
exclusion from EU reference benchmarks. This additional datapoint was further confirmed
during the post-consultation workshop. It was then agreed at SR TEG and the SRB to
include this additional datapoint in the Standard within C8 – Revenues from certain sectors
and exclusion from EU reference benchmarks.
BC187. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure is in paragraphs 239 to
241 of the VSME.
C9 – Gender diversity ratio in governance body
BC188. This disclosure remains unchanged from the ED and was requested in six of the twelve
questionnaires analysed (refer to BC64). This datapoint was subject to significant debate,
with those disagreeing with this datapoint arguing that SMEs are mostly family businesses
and thus have a limited choice on gender diversity. Others noted that there is no legal
binding requirement in the existing sustainability acquis that requests SMEs to disclose
their gender diversity ratio in governance bodies, as SMEs are not in the scope of Directive
(EU) 2022/2381 to improve the gender balance among directors of listed companies and
related measures. Those that disagreed argued that, as for larger companies, female
family members could take part in the governance bodies of these businesses. In addition,
they consider that transparency on important matters such as gender diversity and
inclusion are important for users. Finally, it was agreed to include this datapoint in this
Module, it being an SFDR datapoint subject to consultation.
December 2024 Page 37 of 323
VSME Basis for Conclusions
BC189. When drafting the datapoint, two possible alternatives for the calculation of the metric have
been considered. The SFDR uses the metric of number of female members to male
members. The more generally used and simpler formula is the number of female members
(or male members) to the total number of members of the governance bodies. EFRAG
adopted the first one to be aligned with the SFDR and the sector-agnostic standards as
adopted by the European Commission on 31 July 2023.
BC190. During the public consultation the same aforementioned issues were transmitted by SME
associations, which asked to delete this disclosure as family-owned undertakings cannot
apply it. Despite this, banks deemed this datapoint as essential (SFDR datapoint). The
need for this disclosure was reiterated during the banking associations workshop:
however, the banks asked to clarify that if the SME does not have a governance body in
place, it does not have to report on this disclosure. This disclosure remained an issue for
SME associations but was decided to be kept given that it was an SFDR datapoint.
BC191. Additional guidance to support the preparation of this disclosure is available in paragraphs
242 to 244 of the VSME. This guidance remains unchanged in the VSME.
Comprehensive Module deleted disclosures from the ED
Former Environmental Disclosure BP6 – Hazardous waste and radioactive waste ratio
BC192. SR TEG and the SRB agreed to include the elements of this disclosure within disclosure
B7 – Resource use, circular economy and waste management. During the public
consultation, it surfaced that hazardous waste, and specifically radioactive waste, was not
relevant/ applicable for prepares, while it was confirmed to be essential for banks and large
undertakings. To streamline the Standard and reduce redundancies, it was decided to only
request information on hazardous waste (which included radioactive waste) within
disclosure B7. At SR TEG, it was agreed to make radioactive waste explicit in the guidance
to ensure alignment with SFDR PAI datapoints. Former disclosure BP6 was seen as
redundant and was decided to be deleted.
Former Social Metric Disclosure BP10 – Work-life balance
BC193. SR TEG approved the deletion of the initial disclosure following feedback from the public
consultation, which emphasised the datapoint’s limited relevance. This decision was
further supported during workshops held with banking associations and with SME
representatives in September (2024).
Former Social Metric Disclosure BP11 – Number of apprentices
BC194. SR TEG approved the deletion of the initial disclosure after the public consultation
underscored its lack of relevance. The decision was also validated by feedback received
during workshops held with banking associations and held with SME representatives in
September (2024).
December 2024 Page 38 of 323
Appendix A: Defined Terms
Appendix A: Defined Terms
BC195. Concerning the Defined Terms, EFRAG Secretariat has introduced the terms that were not
defined in the text of the VSME ED and where possible, i.e. compatibly with the need to
simplify the language and increase understandability, the definitions have been aligned to
the ones already present in ESRS Delegated Act Set 1. Some definitions, which are not
defined in ESRS Set 1, have been introduced following explicit requests by EFRAG SR
TEG and SRB members. This is explained in the third column “Aligned with ESRS
Delegated Act Set 1” of the table below, which illustrates which definitions are fully aligned
with Set 1 and which deviate from it.
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Accident prevention Accident prevention refers to the policies and Not aligned, but
initiatives to prevent workplace accidents and inserted following
ensure the safety and well-being of employees. feedback from
This not only includes measures to reduce the public
physical risks but also involves fostering a safe consultation
and inclusive work environment free from
discrimination and harassment.
Actions Actions refer to (i) actions and actions plans Fully aligned
(including transition plans) that are undertaken to
ensure that the undertaking delivers against
targets set and through which the undertaking
seeks to address material impacts, risks and
opportunities; and (ii) decisions to support these
with financial, human or technological resources.
Affected communities People or group(s) living or working in the same Fully aligned
area that have been or may be affected by a
reporting undertaking’s operations or through its
upstream and downstream value chain. Affected
communities can range from those living adjacent
to the undertaking’s operations (local
communities) to those living at a distance.
Affected communities include actually and
potentially affected indigenous peoples.
Biodiversity-sensitive Biodiversity-sensitive areas include: Natura 2000 Fully aligned
Area network of protected areas, UNESCO World
Heritage sites and Key Biodiversity Areas
(‘KBAs’), as well as other protected areas, as
referred to in Appendix D of Annex II to
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU)
2021/2139.
Business Conduct The following matters are collectively referred to Fully aligned
as ‘business conduct or business conduct
matters’:
(a) business ethics and corporate culture,
including anti-corruption and anti-bribery, the
protection of whistleblowers, and animal welfare;
(b) the management of relationships with
suppliers, including payment practices,
December 2024 Page 39 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
especially with regard to late payment to small
and medium-sized undertakings.
(c) activities and commitments of the undertaking
related to exerting its political influence, including
its lobbying activities.
Child Labour Work that deprives children of their childhood, Aligned with Set
potential, and dignity and harms their physical 1, but shortened
and mental development. It includes work that is for simplification
mentally, physically, socially, or morally
dangerous and/or interferes with their schooling
(by preventing them from the opportunity to
attend school).
Collective bargaining All negotiations which take place between an Fully aligned
employer, a group of employers or one or more
employers' organisations, on the one hand, and
one or more trade unions or, in their absence, the
representatives of the workers duly elected and
authorised by them in accordance with national
laws and regulations, on the other, for: i)
determining working conditions and terms of
employment; and/or ii) regulating relations
between employers and workers; and/or
regulating relations between employers or their
organisations and a workers' organisation or
workers' organisations.
Corruption Abuse of entrusted power for private gain, which Fully aligned
can be instigated by individuals or organisations.
It includes practices such as facilitation
payments, fraud, extortion, collusion, and money
laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of
any gift, loan, fee, reward, or other advantage to
or from any person as an inducement to do
something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach
of trust in the conduct of the undertaking’s
business. This can include cash or in-kind
benefits, such as free goods, gifts, and holidays,
or special personal services provided for the
purpose of an improper advantage, or that can
result in moral pressure to receive such an
advantage.
Consumers Individuals who acquire, consume or use goods Fully aligned
and services for personal use, either for
themselves or for others, and not for resale,
commercial or trade, business, craft or profession
purposes.
Classified information EU classified information as defined in Council Aligned with Set
Decision of 23 September 2013 on the security 1, but second
rules for protecting EU classified information paragraph added
(2013/488/EU) or classified by one of the to further clarify
Member States and marked as per Appendix B of the definition
that Council decision.
EU classified information means any information
designated by a EU security classification, of
December 2024 Page 40 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
which the unauthorised disclosure could cause
varying degrees of prejudice to the interests of
the European Union or of one or more of the
Member States. Classified information may be
classified according to four levels: top secret,
secret, confidential, restricted (based on the
definition from the Council Decision).
Circular economy The European circular economy principles are Fully aligned
principles usability; reusability; repairability; disassembly;
remanufacturing or refurbishment; recycling;
recirculation by the biological cycle; other
potential optimisation of product and material
use.
Climate-change The process of adjustment to actual and Fully aligned
adaptation expected climate change and its impacts.
Climate-related Risks resulting from climate change that can be Fully aligned
physical risks event-driven (acute) or from longer-term shifts
(chronic) in climate patterns. Acute physical risks
arise from particular hazards, especially weather-
related events such as storms, floods, fires or
heatwaves. Chronic physical risks arise from
longer-term changes in the climate, such as
temperature changes, and their effects on rising
sea levels, reduced water availability, biodiversity
loss and changes in land and soil productivity.
Direct GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions from sources that are Fully aligned
(Scope 1) owned or controlled by the undertaking.
Discrimination Discrimination can occur directly or indirectly. Fully aligned
Direct discrimination occurs when an individual is
treated less favourably by comparison to how
others, who are in a similar situation. Indirect
discrimination occurs when an apparently neutral
rule disadvantages a person or a group sharing
the same characteristics.
Employee An individual who is in an employment Fully aligned
relationship with the undertaking according to
national law or practice.
End-users Individuals who ultimately use or are intended to Fully aligned
ultimately use a particular product or service.
Forced Labour All work or service which is exacted from any Not aligned, but
person under the threat of penalty and for which inserted following
the person has not offered himself or herself feedback from
voluntarily according to the ILO Forced Labour the public
Convention, 1930 (No.29). The term consultation
encompasses all situations in which persons are
coerced by any means to perform work.
Grievance mechanism Any routinized, state-based or non-state-based, Fully aligned
judicial or non-judicial processes through which
stakeholders can raise grievances and seek
December 2024 Page 41 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
remedy. Examples of state-based judicial and
non-judicial grievance mechanisms include
courts, labour tribunals, national human rights
institutions, National Contact Points under the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
ombudsperson offices, consumer protection
agencies, regulatory oversight bodies, and
government-run complaints offices. Non-state-
based grievance mechanisms include those
administered by the undertaking, either alone or
together with stakeholders, such as operational-
level grievance mechanisms and collective
bargaining, including the mechanisms
established by collective bargaining. They also
include mechanisms administered by industry
associations, international organisations, civil
society organisations, or multi-stakeholder
groups. Operational-level grievance mechanisms
are administered by the organisation either alone
or in collaboration with other parties and are
directly accessible by the organisation’s
stakeholders. They allow for grievances to be
identified and addressed early and directly,
thereby preventing both harm and grievances
from escalating. They also provide important
feedback on the effectiveness of the
organisation’s due diligence from those who are
directly affected. According to UN Guiding
Principle 31, effective grievance mechanisms are
legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable,
transparent, rights-compatible, and a source of
continuous learning. In addition to these criteria,
effective operational-level grievance
mechanisms are also based on engagement and
dialogue. It can be more difficult for the
organisation to assess the effectiveness of
grievance mechanisms that it participates in
compared to those it has established itself.
Greenhouse Gases For the purposes of this Standard, GHGs are the Fully aligned
(GHG) six gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol: carbon
dioxide (CO ); methane (CH ); nitrous oxide
2 4
(N O); Nitrogen trifluoride (NF );
2 3
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons
(PFCs); and sulphur hexafluoride (SF ).
6
Governance The governance is the system of rules, practices Not aligned, but
and processes by which a company is directed inserted following
and controlled. a request from an
EFRAG SRB
member
Gross greenhouse gas Gross greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are total Not aligned, but
(GHG) emissions GHG emissions released by the undertaking into inserted following
the atmosphere, without considering any feedback from
deductions for carbon removals or other the public
adjustments. consultation
December 2024 Page 42 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Hazardous waste Waste which displays one or more of the Fully aligned
hazardous properties listed in Annex III of
Directive 2008/98/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council on waste.
Human trafficking The recruitment, transportation, transfer, Not aligned but
harbouring or reception of persons, including the inserted following
exchange or transfer of control over those feedback from
persons, by means of the threat or use of force or the public
other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of consultation.
deception, of the abuse of power or of a position
of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of
payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a
person having control over another person, for
the purpose of exploitation.
Incident A legal action or complaint registered with the Fully aligned
undertaking or competent authorities through a
formal process, or an instance of non-compliance
identified by the undertaking through established
procedures. Established procedures to identify
instances of non-compliance can include
management system audits, formal monitoring
programs, or grievance mechanisms.
Indirect GHG emissions Indirect emissions are a consequence of the Fully aligned
(Scope 2) operations of the undertaking but occur at
sources owned or controlled by another
company. Scope 2 GHG emissions are indirect
emissions from the generation of purchased or
acquired electricity, steam and heat, or cooling
consumed by the undertaking.
Impact Impact refers to the effect an organisation has or Not aligned, but
could have on the economy, environment, and inserted following
people, including effects on their human rights, as feedback from
a result of the organization’s activities or business the public
relationships. The impacts can be actual or consultation
potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-
term, intended or unintended, direct or indirect,
and reversible or irreversible. These impacts
indicate the organization’s contribution, negative
or positive, to sustainable development. The
impacts on the economy, environment, and
people are interrelated.
The organization’s impacts on the environment
refer to the impacts on living organisms and non-
living elements, including air, land, water, and
ecosystems. An organization can have an impact
on the environment through, for example, its use
of energy, land, water, and other natural
resources.
The organization’s impacts on people refer to the
impacts on individuals and groups, such as
communities, vulnerable groups, or society. This
includes the impacts the organization has on
people’s human rights. An organization can have
December 2024 Page 43 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
an impact on people through, for example, its
employment practices (e.g. the wages it pays to
employees), its supply chain (e.g. the working
conditions of workers of suppliers), and its
products and services (e.g. their safety or
accessibility).
Land-use The human use of a specific area for a certain Simplified version
purpose (such as residential; agriculture; (land cover made
recreation; industrial, etc.). Influenced by land explicit)
cover (grass, asphalt, trees, bare ground, water,
etc). Land-use change refers to a change in the
use or management of land by humans, which
may lead to a change in land cover.
Location-based Scope Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and Not present in
2 emissions cooling purchased or acquired and consumed by Set 1 but added
the reporting company, calculated using the following the
location-based ‘allocating’ method, which public
allocates generator emissions to end-users. They consultation.
reflect the average emissions intensity of grids on
which the energy consumption occurs and uses
mostly grid-average emission factor data. Typical
sources of Scope 2 emissions relate to any
equipment that consumes electricity (electrical
engines, lights, buildings, etc.), heat (heating in
industrial processes, buildings, etc.), steam
(industrial processes) and cooling (industrial
processes, buildings, etc.).
Nature-oriented area A “nature-oriented area” is an area dedicated Not present in
primarily to nature preservation or restoration. Set 1 but
They can be located on-site and include elements requested by an
like roof, façade, water drainages designed, to SR TEG member
promote biodiversity. Nature-oriented areas can
also be located outside the organisation site
provided that the area is owned or (co-)managed
by the organisation and is primarily dedicated to
promoting biodiversity.
(Adapted from: Source: EMAS regulation)
Near (Biodiversity Near, in the context of B5 – Biodiversity, shall Not present in
Sensitive Area) refer to an area that is (partially) overlapping or Set 1 but added
adjacent to a biodiversity sensitive area. following the
public
consultation.
Own workforce/own Employees who are in an employment Fully aligned
workers relationship with the undertaking (‘employees’)
and non-employees who are either individual
contractors supplying labour to the undertaking
(‘self-employed people’) or people provided by
undertakings primarily engaged in ‘employment
activities’ (NACE Code N78).
December 2024 Page 44 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Pay The ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary Fully aligned
and any other remuneration, whether in cash or
in kind which the worker receives directly or
indirectly (‘complementary or variable
components’), in respect of his/her employment
from his/her employer. ‘Pay level’ means gross
annual pay and the corresponding gross hourly
pay. ‘Median pay level’ means the pay of the
employee that would have half of the employees
earn more and half less than they do.
Policy A set or framework of general objectives and Partially aligned.
management principles that the undertaking Additional
uses for decision-making. A policy implements examples added.
the undertaking’s strategy or management
decisions related to a sustainability issue. Each
policy is under the responsibility of
defined person(s), specifies its perimeter of
application, and includes one or more objectives
(linked when applicable to measurable targets).
A policy is implemented through actions or action
plans.
For example, undertakings with less resources
may have few (or no) policies formalised in
written documents, but this does not
necessarily mean they do not have policies.
If the undertaking has not yet formalised a policy
but has implemented actions or defined targets
through which the undertaking seeks to address
sustainability topics and subtopics, it shall
disclose them.
Radioactive waste Any radioactive material in gaseous, liquid, or Not present in
solid form, for which no further use is foreseen, Set 1 but added
as per Article 3(7) of Council Directive following the
2011/70/Euratom11. public
consultation.
Recordable work- A work-related accident is an event that leads to First definition is
related accident/ physical or mental harm therefore to injury or ill adapted from Set
Recordable work- health. It happens whilst engaged in an 1 definition of
related injury or ill occupational activity or during the time spent at “work-related
health work. Recordable means diagnosed by a incidents”
physician or other licensed health care
Second definition
professionals.
is aligned with
Work-related injury or ill health can result in any Set 1, but
of the following: death, days away from work, shortened and
restricted work or transfer to another job, medical adapted for
treatment beyond first aid or loss of simplification
consciousness. Injuries that do not require
medical treatment beyond first aid are generally
not recordable.
11 Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible
and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
December 2024 Page 45 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Recycling Any recovery operation by which waste materials Fully aligned
are reprocessed into products, materials or
substances whether for the original or other
purposes. It includes the reprocessing of organic
material but does not include energy recovery
and the reprocessing into materials that are to be
used as fuels or for backfilling operations.
Renewable Energy Energy from renewable non-fossil sources, Fully aligned
namely wind, solar (solar thermal and solar
photovoltaic) and geothermal energy, ambient
energy, tide, wave and other ocean energy,
hydropower, biomass, landfill gas, sewage
treatment plant gas, and biogas12.
Sealed area A sealed area means any area where the original Not present in
soil has been covered (such as roads) making it Set 1, but
impermeable. This non-permeability can create requested by an
environmental impacts. SR TEG member
(Source: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:02009R1221-
20230712 )
Sensitive information Sensitive information as defined in Regulation Aligned with Set
(EU) 2021/697 of the European Parliament and 1, but second
of the Council of 29 April 2021 establishing the paragraph added
European Defence Fund. to further clarify
the definition
The definition provided in the same Council of 29
April 2021: Sensitive information
means information and data, including classified
information, that is to be protected
from unauthorised access or disclosure because
of obligations laid down in Union or national law
or in order to safeguard the privacy or security of
a natural or legal person.
Site The location of one or more physical installations. Fully aligned
If there is more than one physical installation from
the same or different owners or operators and
certain infrastructure and facilities are shared, the
entire area where the physical installation are
located may constitute a site.
Targets Measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound Fully aligned
goals that the SME aims to achieve in relation to
material sustainability topics and subtopics. They
may be set voluntarily by the SME or derive from
legal requirements on the undertaking.
12 Article 2(1) Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the
promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (OJ L 328, 21.12.2018, p.
82).
December 2024 Page 46 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Time horizons When preparing its sustainability report, the Not present in
undertaking shall adopt the following time Set 1 (to be
horizons: defined by the
large
for the short-term time horizon, one year;
undertakings) but
for the medium-term time horizon, from two to five added following
years; and the public
consultation.
for the long-term time horizon, more than five
years.
Training Initiatives put in place by the undertaking aimed Fully aligned
at the maintenance and/or improvement of skills
and knowledge of its own workers. It can include
different methodologies, such as on-site training,
and online training.
Value Chain The full range of activities, resources and Aligned – deleted
relationships related to the undertaking’s ‘ESRS use the
business model and the external environment in term “value
which it operates. A value chain encompasses chain” in the
the activities, resources and relationships the singular,
undertaking uses and relies on to create its although it is
products or services from conception to delivery, recognised that
consumption and end-of- life. Relevant activities, undertakings
resources and relationships include: a) those in may have
the undertaking’s own operations, such as multiple value
human resources; b) those along its supply, chains’
marketing and distribution channels, such as
materials and service sourcing and product and
service sale and delivery; and c) the financing,
geographical, geopolitical and regulatory
environments in which the undertaking operates.
Value chain includes actors upstream and
downstream from the undertaking. Actors
upstream from the undertaking (e.g. suppliers)
provide products or services that are used in the
development of the undertaking’s products or
services. Entities downstream from the
undertaking (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the
undertaking.
Wage Gross wage, excluding variable components Fully aligned
such as overtime and incentive pay, and
excluding allowances unless they are
guaranteed.
Water consumption The amount of water drawn into the boundaries Fully aligned
of the undertaking (or facility) and not discharged
back to the water environment or a third party
over the course of the reporting period.
Water withdrawal The sum of all water drawn into the boundaries of Fully aligned
the undertaking from all sources for any use over
the course of the reporting period.
December 2024 Page 47 of 323
Appendix A: Defined terms
Aligned with
Defined term Definition ESRS Delegated
Act Set 1
Worker in the value An individual performing work in the value chain Fully aligned
chain of the undertaking, regardless of the existence or
nature of any contractual relationship with the
undertaking. In the ESRS, the scope of workers
in the value chain include all workers in the
undertaking’s upstream and downstream value
chain who are or can be materially impacted by
the undertaking. This includes impacts that are
connected to the undertaking’s own operations,
and value chain, including through its products or
services, as well as through its business
relationships. This includes all workers who are
not in the scope of ‘Own Workforce’ (‘Own
Workforce’ includes people who are in an
employment relationship with the undertaking
(‘employees’) and non-employees who are either
individual contractors supplying labour to the
undertaking (‘self-employed people’) or people
provided by undertakings primarily engaged in
employment activities. (NACE Code N78).
December 2024 Page 48 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
Annex 1: VSME Exposure Draft (ED) January 2024
December 2024 Page 49 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 50 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 51 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 52 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 53 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 54 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 55 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 56 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 57 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 58 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 59 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 60 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 61 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 62 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 63 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 64 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 65 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 66 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 67 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 68 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 69 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 70 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 71 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 72 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 73 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 74 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 75 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 76 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 77 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 78 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 79 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 80 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 81 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 82 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 83 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 84 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 85 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 86 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 87 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 88 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 89 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 90 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 91 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 92 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 93 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 94 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 95 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 96 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 97 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 98 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 99 of 323
Annex 1: VSME ED
December 2024 Page 100 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 101 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 102 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 103 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 104 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 105 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 106 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 107 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 108 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 109 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 110 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 111 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 112 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 113 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 114 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 115 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 116 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 117 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 118 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 119 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 120 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 121 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 122 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 123 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 124 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 125 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 126 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 127 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 128 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 129 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 130 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 131 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 132 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 133 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 134 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 135 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 136 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 137 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 138 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 139 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 140 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 141 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 142 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 143 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 144 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 145 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 146 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 147 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 148 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 149 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 150 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 151 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 152 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 153 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 154 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 155 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 156 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 157 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 158 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 159 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 160 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 161 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 162 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 163 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 164 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 165 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 166 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 167 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 168 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 169 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 170 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 171 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 172 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 173 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 174 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 175 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 176 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 177 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 178 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 179 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 180 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 181 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 182 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 183 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 184 of 323
Annex 2: Mark-up from VSME ED
December 2024 Page 185 of 323
Annex 3: List of Public Meetings on VSME
Annex 3: List of public meetings held on the VSME
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 17 November 2022 – EFRAG on the workstreams on SMEs.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 14 December 2022 - EFRAG on SMEs standards approach and
methodology.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 7 February 2023 - EFRAG on the building blocks.
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 19 June 2023 - EFRAG on building blocks.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 28 June 2023 - EFRAG on the role of VSME, entities in scope,
building blocks approach and joint consultation of LSME and VSME
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 13 July 2023 – EFRAG on LSME and VSME.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 13 September 2023 – EFRAG on LSME and VSME.
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 20 September 2023 – EFRAG on the feedback from the
internal consultation on VSME V1.1, focus on cross cutting and Environment.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 22 September 2023 – EFRAG on verbal update on SR TEG
discussions.
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 29 September 2023 – EFRAG on the feedback from the
internal consultation on VSME V1.1, focus on Social and Governance metrics.
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 2 October 2023 – EFRAG on the simplified language approach
to VSME cross cutting section (V2).
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 24 October 2023 – EFRAG feedback on the simplified language
approach to VSME (V3).
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 26 October 2023 – EFRAG detailed feedback and last red
flags on VSME (V3).
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting 8 November 2023 – EFRAG on VSME ED approval.
• EFRAG SRB Meeting 29 November 2023 – EFRAG on VSME ED approval.
Meetings held after the public consultation:
• EFRAG SRB meeting 10 July 2024 | EFRAG on the strategic orientations of the VSME
after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 16 July 2024 | EFRAG on the strategic orientations of the
VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SRB meeting 17 July 2024 | EFRAG on the strategic orientations of the VSME
after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 12 September 2024 | EFRAG on the revised VSME after public
consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG physical meeting 19 September 2024 | EFRAG on the reviewal
continuation of the revised VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG Webcast Meeting - 26 September 2024 | EFRAG on the reviewal
continuation of the revised VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 07 October 2024 | EFRAG on the reviewal continuation of the
revised VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 10 October 2024 | EFRAG on the approval initiation of the
revised VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SRB meeting 16 October 2024 | EFRAG update on the revised VSME after
public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 17 October 2024 | EFRAG on the reviewal continuation of the
revised VSME after public consultation.
• EFRAG SR TEG meeting 22 October 2024 | EFRAG on VSME approval.
• EFRAG SRB meeting 30 October 2024 | EFRAG on VSME approval initiation.
• EFRAG SRB meeting 13 November 2024 | EFRAG on VSME approval.
December 2024 Page 186 of 323
Annex 4: List of internal Meetings on VSME
Annex 4: List of internal meetings held on the VSME
• 1st EWG meeting (19 December 2022): SMEs workstream and building blocks approach,
LSME and VSME approach and prioritization of work.
• SR TEG (19 January 2023): discussion on VSME, approach taken by ex PTF Cluster 8
and the C8 proposal on voluntary standard for SMEs.
• 2nd EWG meeting (19 January 2023): LSME and VSME.
• SRB meeting (27 January 2023) on approach to LSME and VSME as two separate
standards.
• 3rd EWG meeting (9 February 2023): discussion on LSME and VSME Communities
questionnaires and LSME working papers.
• 4th EWG meeting (8 March 2023): Discussion on VSME Community feedback and LSME
working papers.
• European Issuers Smaller issuers committee (9 May 2023).
• EFRAG SR TEG Meeting (5 September 2023): EFRAG on Vienna Initiative
Questionnaire Alignment with VSME V1.1.
• 5th EWG meeting (27 October 2023): discussion on VSME V3.
• Meeting with DG Grow (8 July 2024)
• Internal Meeting with Platform on Sustainable Finance (9 July 2024)
• Meeting with MEF and DG FISMA (15 July 2024)
• Meeting with DG FISMA and DG Grow (3 October 2024)
List of field test workshop events (11 events in total)
• Introductory workshop with VSME field test preparers (9 February 2024)
• VSME User field test introductory meeting (1 March 2024)
• Micro preparers option A (6 May 2024)
• Micro & Small preparers option B (6 May 2024)
• Platforms and rating agencies (7 May 2024)
• Medium preparers option B (8 May 2024)
• Medium preparers option A (13 May 2024)
• Small preparers option A (14 May 2024)
• Users: banks, user associations and other proxies for users (15 May 2024)
• Accounting firms, auditing firms, and reporting tools workshop (16 May 2024)
• Consulting services and others workshop (21 May 2024)
December 2024 Page 187 of 323
Annex 5: List of outreach meetings
Annex 5: List of outreach meetings
• VSME Community workshop internal + final public session (31 January 2023):
presentation of the outcome of the questionnaire sent to the VSME Community members
and additional questions regarding VSME.
• Meeting with Vienna Initiative (30 August 2023): Gap Analysis between VSME V1.1 and
Vienna Initiative Questionnaire
• First Bank workshop (1 September 2023): Feedback on EFRAG VSME V.2
• SME UNITED and EFRAG Secretariat workshop (4 September 2023): Feedback from
EFRAG VSME V.2
• 2nd VSME Community workshop internal + final public session (7 September 2023):
Feedback on EFRAG VSME V.2
• FBF Questionnaire and EFRAG Secretariat (20 September 2023) on alignment with
VSME V.2
• CSR Europe Workshop with EFRAG Secretariat (5 October 2023) on VSME V.2
• Business Europe meeting with EFRAG Secretariat (13 October 2023) on VSME V.2
• Second SME UNITED and EFRAG Secretariat workshop (20 October 2023) on feedback
on VSME V3.
• Second Bank Workshop (23 October 2023) on feedback and alignment on VSME V3.
• CPME (French Members of SMEunited) (25 October 2023) on feedback on VSME V3.
• SME Envoys Network (11 January 2024) on VSME
• Introductory meeting with EcoVadis (12 January 2024)
• EFRAG – ILO (29 January 2024) focus on social dimension in LSME and VSME
• EFRAG User Panel meeting (1 February 2024)
• SME Envoys Network (2 February 2024)
• 4th Open-Es meeting (8 February 2024)
• ESMA on ESRS LSME ED and VSME ED (13 February 2024)
• Public consultation outreach event (20 February 2024)
• Open ES Camp event (22 February 2024)
• EcoVadis Meeting on VSME (26 February 2024)
• EIB Climate Coordination Committee – ESRS LSME ED and VSME ED (12 March 2024)
• Open ES follow up meeting (21 March 2024)
• Meeting with the Platform on Sustainable Finance (5 April 2024)
• Confartiginato Imprese meeting: Forum Sostenibilitá (10 April 2024)
• OIBR meeting (11 April 2024) – focus on VSME
• French Ministry of Economy (29 April 2024)
• Impact Europe Outreach Event (13 may 2024) – SMEs with impact: facilitating
sustainability reporting.
• OECD outreach event (14 May 2024)
• Banque de France Outreach event (13 May 2024)
• Autorités Françaises (19 June 2024) Focus on the public consultation
• New Zealand Reporting Authority – SME climate related disclosures (19 June 2024)
• External event SAGE (10 September 2024)
• Bank Workshop (16 September 2024) – Focus on additional disclosures requested by
banks in public consultation
• SMEunited Workshop (23 September 2024) – Focus on revised VSME after public
consultation
• IFASS meeting (25 September 2024) – focus on SME reporting
• CSR Europe Meeting (3 October 2024) EACB LSME and VSME (16 October 2024)
• OECD Annual Conference (4 November 2024) – SME Sustainability Reporting
• Orgalim Biannual Corporate Sustainability Task Force meeting (6 November 2024) -
VSME & LSME
• EEN Budapest (6-8 November 2024)
December 2024 Page 188 of 323
Annex 6: Breakdown of the VSME
community members
Annex 6: Breakdown of the VSME community members
1. The EFRAG VSME community provides input to the EFRAG Secretariat and consists of
146 members. These have been broken down by category: auditors, preparers, users and
others. The graph below provides a graphical representation of the percentages that these
categories represent within the total number of community members.
2. The graph below illustrates the breakdown by country of the total VSME community
members.
December 2024 Page 189 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark
Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and
ESRS Set 1
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3
datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
Basic Module
B3 – Energy and greenhouse gas ESRS E1-5 SAME
emissions (SFDR and Benchmark) DEFINITION
35. The undertaking shall
AS SET 1
The undertaking shall disclose its total energy provide information on its
consumption in MWh, with a breakdown as energy consumption and
per the table below, if it can obtain the mix.
necessary information to provide such a
37. The disclosure required
breakdown: [TABLE]
by paragraph 35 shall
include the total energy
consumption in MWh
The undertaking shall disclose its estimated
related to own operations
gross greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in
disaggregated by:
tons of CO2 equivalents (tCO2eq),
considering the content of the GHG Protocol (a) total energy
Corporate Standard (version 2004), including: consumption from fossil
sources;
(a) The scope 1 GHG emissions in
tCO eq (from owned or controlled
2
sources); and
(b) The location-based scope 2
emissions in tCO eq (emissions
2
from the generation of purchased
ESRS E1-6 Partially
energy, such as electricity, heat,
aligned due to
steam or cooling). 44. The undertaking shall
the explicit
disclose in metric tonnes of
The undertaking shall disclose its GHG removal of
CO2eq its:
intensity calculated by dividing ‘gross Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions’ disclosed (a) gross Scope 1 GHG emissions in
under paragraph 30 by ‘turnover (in Euro)’ emissions; line with the
disclosed under paragraph 24 (e) (iv). VSME
(b) gross Scope 2 GHG
simplified
emissions;
approach.
(c) gross Scope 3 GHG
emissions; and
(d) total GHG emissions.
53. The undertaking shall
disclose its GHG emissions
intensity (total GHG
emissions per net revenue).
54. The disclosure on GHG
intensity required by
paragraph 53 shall provide
the total GHG emissions in
metric tonnes of CO2eq
December 2024 Page 190 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
(required by paragraph 44
(d)) per net revenue.
B4 – Pollution of air, water and soil (SFDR) ESRS E2-4 SAME
DEFINITION
If the undertaking is already required by law The undertaking shall
AS SET 1
or other national regulations to report to disclose the amounts of:
competent authorities its emissions of
(a) each pollutant listed in
pollutants, or if it voluntarily reports on them
Annex II of Regulation (EC)
according to an Environmental Management
No 166/2006 of the
System, it shall disclose the pollutants it emits
European Parliament and
to air, water and soil in its own operations,
of the Council (European
with the respective amount for each pollutant.
Pollutant Release and
If this information is already publicly available,
Transfer Register “E-PRTR
the undertaking may alternatively refer to the
Regulation”) emitted to air,
document where it is reported, for example,
water and soil, with the
by providing the relevant URL link or
exception of emissions of
embedding a hyperlink.
GHGs which are disclosed
in accordance with ESRS
E1 Climate Change.
B5 – Biodiversity (SFDR) ESRS SBM 3 Partially
aligned with
The undertaking shall disclose the number The undertaking shall
SET 1
and area (in hectares) of sites that it owns, disclose:
has leased, or manages, in or near
a) a list of material sites in
biodiversity sensitive areas.
its own operations,
including sites under its
operational control, based
on the results of paragraph
17(a). The undertaking
shall disclose these
locations by:
i. specifying the
activities negatively
affecting biodiversity
sensitive areas;
B7 – Resource use, circular economy, and E5 par. 39: SAME
waste management (SFDR Table 1) DEFINITION
The undertaking shall also
AS SET 1
disclose the total amount of
The undertaking shall disclose:
hazardous waste and
radioactive waste
(a) the total annual generation of
generated by the
waste broken down by type (non-
undertaking, where
hazardous and hazardous);
radioactive waste is defined
in Article 3(7) of Council
Guidance:
Directive 2011/70/Euratom.
When reporting on hazardous waste
according to paragraph 38 (a), the undertaking
fulfils the requirements on radioactive waste
of the indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1
of the Sustainable Finance Disclosure
December 2024 Page 191 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
Regulation (SFDR).13 This SFDR indicator
(ratio between tonnes of radioactive and
hazardous waste) can be computed by using
the numerator and denominator that the
undertaking provides when reporting
according to paragraph 38 (a).
B9 – Workforce – Health and safety (SFDR) ESRS S1-14 SAME
DEFINITION
The undertaking shall disclose: The disclosure required by
AS SET 1
paragraph 86 shall include
(a) the number and rate of recordable
the following information,
work-related accidents.
where applicable broken
(b) the number of fatalities as a result down between employees
of work-related injuries and work- and non-employees in the
related ill health; undertaking’s own
workforce:
b) the number of
fatalities as a result
of work-related
injuries and work-
related ill health;
c) the number and
rate of recordable
work-related
accidents;
B10 – Workforce – Remuneration, ESRS S1-16 SAME
collective bargaining, and training (SFDR) DEFINITION
The disclosure required by
AS SET 1
The undertaking shall disclose: paragraph 95 shall include:
(b) the percentage gap in pay (a) the gender pay gap,
between its female and male defined as the difference of
employees. The undertaking may average pay levels
omit this disclosure when its between female and male
headcount is below 150 employees, expressed as
employees noting that this percentage of the average
threshold will be reduced to 100 pay level of male
employees from 7 June 2031 employees;
B11 – Convictions and fines for corruption ESRS G1-4 SAME
and bribery (Benchmark) DEFINITION
The undertaking shall
AS SET 1
In case of convictions and fines in the disclose: (a) the number of
reporting period, the undertaking shall convictions and the amount
disclose the number of convictions and the of fines for violation of anti-
amount of fines incurred for the violation of corruption and anti-bribery
anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. laws
Comprehensive Module
E1 PAR 34 (b): GHG The part of this
emission reduction targets datapoint that
13 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on
sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation)
(OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1).
December 2024 Page 192 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
shall be disclosed for Scope in ESRS
C3 – GHG reduction targets and climate 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions, Delegated Act
transition (Benchmark) either separately or July 2023 for
combined. The undertaking large
If the undertaking has established GHG
shall specify, in case of undertakings
emission reduction targets, it shall disclose its
combined GHG emission also includes
targets in absolute values for Scope 1 and
reduction targets, which Scope 3 GHG
Scope 2 emissions. In line with paragraphs 50
GHG emission Scopes (1, 2 emission
to 53 above and if it has set Scope 3
and/or 3) are covered by the reduction
reduction targets, the undertaking shall also
target, the share related to targets has
provide targets for significant Scope 3
each respective GHG been included
emissions.
emission Scope and which as part of the
GHGs are covered. The entity specific
undertaking shall explain consideration
how the consistency of concerning
these targets with its GHG scope 3.
inventory boundaries is
ensured (as required by
Disclosure Requirement
E1-6). The GHG emission
reduction targets shall be
gross targets, meaning that
the undertaking shall not
include GHG removals,
carbon credits or avoided
emissions as a means of
achieving the GHG
emission reduction targets;
E1 par 14: 14. The Partially aligned
undertaking shall disclose with Set 1. The
its transition plan for climate transition plan
change mitigation. is reserved for
If the undertaking that operates in high SMEs
climate impact sectors has adopted a 16. The information operating in
transition plan for climate change mitigation, it required by paragraph 14 high climate
may provide information about it, including an shall include: impact sectors.
explanation of how it is contributing to reduce by reference to GHG
GHG emissions. emission reduction targets
(as required by Disclosure
Requirement E1-4), an
explanation of how the
undertaking’s targets are
compatible with the limiting
of global warming to 1.5°C
in line with the Paris
Agreement;
E1 par. 64 (a), 66 and 67 c): The part of this
C4 – Climate Risks
datapoint that in
64. The undertaking shall
ESRS
If the undertaking has identified climate-related disclose its:
Delegated Act
hazards and climate-related transition events,
(a) anticipated financial July 2023 for
creating gross climate-related risks for the
effects from material large
undertaking, it shall:
physical risks; undertakings
(a) briefly describe such climate- also includes
(b) anticipated financial
related hazards and climate- anticipated
effects from material
related transition events; financial effects
transition risks;
from material
December 2024 Page 193 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
(b) disclose how it has assessed the 66. The disclosure of transition risks
exposure and sensitivity of its anticipated financial effects has been
assets, activities and value chain from material physical risks deleted in line
to these hazards and transition required by paragraph 64 with the
events; (a) shall include: simplification
applied to the
(c) disclose the time horizons of any (a) the monetary amount
VSME as part
climate-related hazards and and proportion (percentage)
of its
transition events identified; and of assets at material
methodology.
physical risk over the short-
(d) disclose whether it has undertaken
, medium- and long-term
climate change adaptation
before considering climate
actions for any climate-related
change adaptation actions;
hazards and transition events.
with the monetary amounts
The undertaking may disclose the potential of these assets
adverse effects of climate risks, that may affect disaggregated by acute and
its financial performance or business chronic physical risk;
operations in the short-, medium- or long-term,
(b) the proportion of assets
indicating whether it assesses the risks to be
at material physical risk
high, medium, low.
addressed by the climate
change adaptation actions;
(c) the location of significant
assets at material physical
risk; and
(d) the monetary amount
and proportion (percentage)
of net revenue from its
business activities at
material physical risk over
the short-, medium- and
long-term.
67. The disclosure of
anticipated financial effects
from material transition risks
required by paragraph 64
(b) shall include:
(c) a breakdown of the
carrying value of the
undertaking’s real estate
assets by energy efficiency
classes;
The disclosure required by
C5 – Additional (general) workforce Partially aligned
paragraph 53 shall include:
characteristics to Set 1
(a) a disclosure of the total
If the undertaking employs 50 or more number of non-employees
employees, it may disclose the number of in the undertaking’s own
those self-employed without personnel who workforce, i.e., either
are working exclusively for the undertaking, people with contracts with
and temporary workers provided by the undertaking to supply
undertakings primarily engaged in labour (“self-employed
‘employment activities’. people”) or people provided
by undertakings primarily
engaged in “employment
activities” (NACE Code
N78).
December 2024 Page 194 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
S1, par. 21: SAME
C6 – Additional own workforce metric -
DEFINITION
Human rights policies and processes The undertaking shall
AS SET 1
(SFDR Table 1) disclose whether and how
its policies with regard to its Missing “and
The undertaking shall disclose an answer to own workforce are aligned how”
the following questions. with relevant internationally
recognised instruments,
(a) Does the undertaking have a code including the UN Guiding
of conduct or human rights policy Principles on Business and
for its own workforce? (YES/NO) Human Rights.
(b) If yes, does this cover:
i. child labour (YES/ NO);
ii. forced labour (YES/
NO);
iii. human trafficking
(YES/NO);
iv. discrimination
(YES/NO);
v. accident prevention
(YES/NO); or
vi. other? (YES/NO – if yes,
specify).
S1, par. 20: SAME
DEFINITION
The undertaking shall
(c) Does the undertaking have a AS SET 1
describe its human rights
complaints-handling mechanism for
policy commitments that are
its own workforce? (YES/ NO)
relevant to its own
workforce, including those
processes and mechanisms
to monitor compliance with
the UN Guiding Principles
on Business and Human
Rights, ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work and the
OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises.
S1 par. 104 a) : The SAME AS SET
C7 – Severe negative human rights
undertaking shall disclose 1 DEFINITION
incidents
the following information
regarding identified cases of
The undertaking shall disclose an answer to
severe human rights
the following questions:
incidents (e.g., forced
labour, human trafficking or
child labour): (a) the number
of severe human rights
incidents connected to the
December 2024 Page 195 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
(a) Does the undertaking have undertaking’s workforce in
confirmed incidents in its own the reporting period,
workforce related to: including an indication of
how many of these are
i. child labour (YES/ NO); cases of non-respect of the
UN Guiding Principles on
ii. forced labour (YES/ Business and Human
NO); Rights, ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and
iii. human trafficking Rights at Work or OECD
(YES/ NO); Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises. If no such
iv. discrimination (YES/ incidents have occurred, the
NO); or undertaking shall state this.
S2 par. 36: The undertaking
v. other? (YES/NO – if yes,
shall also disclose whether
specify).
severe human rights issues
and incidents connected to
(b) If yes, the undertaking may describe
its upstream and
the actions being taken to address
downstream value
the incidents described above.
chain have been reported
and, if applicable, disclose
(c) Is the undertaking aware of any these
confirmed incidents involving
S3 par. 36: The undertaking
workers in the value chain,
shall also disclose whether
affected communities,
severe human rights issues
consumers and end-users? If yes,
and incidents connected
specify.
to affected
communities have been
reported and, if applicable,
disclose these
S4 par. 35: When preparing
this disclosure, the
undertaking shall consider
whether severe human
rights issues
and incidents connected to
its consumers and/or end-
users have been reported
and, if applicable, disclose
these
C8 – Revenues from certain sectors and ESRS 2 par 40: The Taxonomy
exclusion from EU reference benchmarks part of this
Where applicable, a
(SFDR Table 1 + Benchmark) Disclosure was
statement indicating,
explicitly
together with the related
If the undertaking is active in one or more of excluded in the
revenues, that the
the following sectors it shall disclose its related methodological
undertaking is active in:
revenues in the sector(s): approach from
i. the fossil fuel (coal, the
(a) controversial weapons (anti- oil and gas) sector, Comprehensive
personnel mines, cluster (i.e., it derives Module of the
munitions, chemical weapons and revenues from VSME.
biological weapons); exploration, mining,
extraction,
(b) the cultivation and production of
production,
tobacco;
processing,
storage, refining or
December 2024 Page 196 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
(c) fossil fuel (coal, oil and gas) sector distribution,
(i.e., the undertaking derives including
revenues from exploration, mining, transportation,
extraction, production, processing, storage and trade,
storage, refining or distribution, of fossil fuels as
including transportation, storage defined in Article 2,
and trade, of fossil fuels as defined point (62), of
in Article 2, point (62), of Regulation (EU)
Regulation (EU) 2018/1999 of the 2018/1999 of the
European Parliament and the European
Council 17), including a Parliament and the
disaggregation of revenues Council17),
derived from coal, oil and gas; or including a
disaggregation of
(d) chemicals production, if the
revenues derived
undertaking is a manufacturer of
from coal, from oil
pesticides and other agrochemical
and from gas, as
products.
well as the
revenues derived
from Taxonomy-
aligned economic
activities related to
fossil gas as
required under
Article 8(7)(a) of
Commission
Delegated
Regulation
2021/217818;
ii. chemicals
production, i.e., its
activities fall under
Division 20.2 of
Annex I to
Regulation (EC) No
1893/2006;
iii. controversial
weapons(anti-
personnel mines,
cluster munitions,
chemical weapons
and biological
weapons); and/or
the cultivation and
production of
tobacco
December 2024 Page 197 of 323
Annex 7: Comparison of SFDR, Benchmark Regulation and Pillar 3 datapoints in the VSME and ESRS Set 1
VSME Datapoints ESRS Set 1 Datapoint Explanation
The undertaking shall disclose whether it is
ESRS E1.1 par. AR5: Partially
excluded from any EU reference benchmarks
Aligned:
that are aligned with the Paris Agreement as When disclosing the
reference to
described in paragraph 241 of the guidance. information required under
DNSH not
paragraph 16 (g), the
included in the
undertaking shall state
VSME in line
whether or not it is excluded
with the
from the EU Paris-aligned
simplification
Benchmarks in accordance
applied to the
with the exclusion criteria
VSME as part
stated in Articles 12(1) (d) to
of its
(g) ( 53 ) and 12(2) of
methodology.
Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) 2020/1818
(Climate Benchmark
Standards Regulation) ( 54
).
C9 – Gender diversity ratio in governance GOV 1 par 21. The Simplification in
body (SFDR Table 1 and Benchmark) undertaking shall disclose line with the
the following information VSME
If the undertaking has a governance body in
about the composition and approach.
place, the undertaking shall disclose the
diversity of the members of
related gender diversity ratio.
the undertaking’s
administrative,
management and
supervisory bodies:
(d) percentage by gender
and other aspects of
diversity that the
undertaking considers. The
board's gender diversity
shall be calculated as an
average ratio of female to
male board members.
December 2024 Page 198 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain cap – legal concept
1. Under the provisions of the Corporate Sustainability Responsibility Directive (CSRD), the ESRS Set 1 for large undertakings shall not specify disclosures
that would require reporting undertakings to obtain information from small and medium-sized undertakings (SMEs) in their value chain that exceeds
the information to be disclosed pursuant to the LSME ESRS (art 29b 4). EFRAG refers to this as the ‘value chain cap’. This concept sets a limit to the
work of the standard setter in the definition of ESRS.
2. At the date of issuance of the VSME Standard, EFRAG has not finalised its technical advice on LSME ESRS.
3. While the vast majority of the SMEs in the value chain of the undertakings in the scope of ESRS Set 1 are not in scope of LSME, from a legal perspective
the standard setting process cannot deviate from the limitation introduced by the legislators in the CSRD (i.e., LSME ESRS, and not Voluntary SME
standard-VSME, is setting the legal cap).
How does this relate to VSME?
4. The Q&A issued by the European Commission accompanying the ESRS Delegated Act indicates that some non-listed SMEs, which are not subject to
any sustainability reporting requirements under the Accounting Directive (Directive 2013/34/EU) as amended by CSRD may nevertheless receive
requests for sustainability information from customers, banks, investors or other stakeholders. EFRAG is therefore also developing simpler, voluntary
standard for use by non-listed SMEs (VSME). VSME intends to enable non-listed SMEs to respond to request for sustainability information in an efficient
and proportionate manner, and so facilitate their participation in the transition to a sustainable economy. In addition, the EC SME Relief Package of
September 2023 refers to VSME as a measure to support SMEs in accessing sustainable finance. As a result of this mandate, the objective of the
VSME is to provide non-listed SMEs with a simple reporting tool to start their sustainability journey and monitor their sustainability performance and to
respond to the growing request of sustainability data from business partners (which includes financial institutions) that are triggered either by ESRS
Set 1 reporting obligations or to manage their sustainability risks and pledges in the lending and investment portfolios (financial institutions) or in the
supply chain (other business partners). The ambition is for VSME to become a common point of reference for lenders, investors and corporate
counterparts in value chain when they define their ESG data requests to SMEs. Concretely this means that, based on market acceptance, VSME is
expected to de facto limit current multiple ESG data requests that would represent an important cost of preparation for SMEs, by replacing the various,
multiple and uncoordinated ESG questionnaires.
How value chain datapoints of ESRS Set 1 are addressed in VSME?
5. During the development of VSME extensive discussions have taken place regarding the determination of the value chain cap and the need for
proportionality, under an appropriate compromise between the expectations expressed at one and the same time by SME preparers and by users of
SME information (large undertakings, financial institutions, other SMEs). Part of the discussions focused upon the so-called ‘trickle down’ effect which
crystallises a concern related to ESRS Set 1 reporting entities requesting excessive information from SMEs in their value chain.
December 2024 Page 199 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
6. The table below provides a detailed analysis of datapoints in ESRS Set1 that have a value chain dimension (see EFRAG IG -2 - Value Chain
Implementation Guidance) with reference to the ‘trickle down’ effect under two complementary perspectives: Perspective 1: focusing on the potential
costs of preparation for SME that is due to data requests due to ESRS reporting from ESRS Set 1 preparers. This perspective looks at what are the
corresponding datapoints in VSME (which has to play a role in limiting the costs of preparation for non-listed SMEs) and how proportionate they are.
This perspective covers the trickle-down effect and takes account of the Set 1 provisions and guidance regarding the preparation of value chain related
information (in particular in relation to the collection of data and the use of secondary data such as proxies, statistics and estimates). Perspective 2:
focusing on the correspondence between value chain datapoints in ESRS Set 1 and VSME, this perspective looks at whether and to what extent there
could be potential (additional) trickle-down effect on SMEs that would derive from data not covered in VSME (under one of the two modules for VSME).
As a reminder, the guiding principle in developing VSME has been to simplify as much as possible the content, while maintaining the datapoints that
are necessary to meet the users’ needs (i.e. the users of the VSME reports). It must also be borne in mind that VSME has been drafted under a sector-
agnostic approach. Specific sectorial perspectives, as well as supply chain management policies or labels or data platforms developed by certain
groups of undertakings (referred to below as « specific arrangements ») may result in additional data requests, which go beyond the scope of a VSME
sector agnostic standard. These are due primarily to managerial needs and do not derive from ESRS Set 1 reporting obligations, in isolation from other
considerations such as business or sustainability due diligence processes. The table on the next page illustrates the specific users’ needs that justify
the respective datapoints in VSME14.
7. The analysis presented in this section includes all the value chain disclosures in ESRS Set 1, irrespective of the fact that in many circumstances they
are not expected to trigger direct data requests.
Detailed explanation of the conclusions on the value chain cap for both VSME under both perspectives
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
Conclusion: no undue effect expected from ESRS reporting15
1.
• Perspective 1: since Set 1 preparers will generally use sectoral data instead of collecting direct data
• Perspective 2: since covered by VSME disclosures
Strategy,
Disclosures in VSME: Basic and Comprehensive Module
business model
• Basic Module B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable economy
14 For financial market participants, an additional information need arises in relation to the obligations stemming from Article 8 Taxonomy Disclosure (Regulation 2020/852). Such disclosure is limited
to own operations and does not extend to suppliers and value chain. Undertakings in scope of the CSRD are also obliged to prepare their own Article 8 Disclosure and will include it in their ESRS
Sustainability statement (both for Set 1 and LSME preparers). The requirement to prepare such disclosure stems from Regulation 2020/852 and not from ESRS in isolation. Non-listed SMEs are
excluded from the scope of the Regulation 2020/852. VSME does not include this disclosure, as on the basis of feedback received so far, this disclosure is too complex for a general (sector agnostic)
data set.
15 The same is also true of SBM-1 requiring a description of the undertaking’s value chain and reflected as a separate row of the value chain map in the EFRAG IG 2 Value Chain_final.pdf.(EFRAG
IG 2: VCIG)
December 2024 Page 200 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
and value chain • Comprehensive Module C2 – Description of practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
(SBM-1) economy
• Comprehensive Module C1 – Strategy: business model and sustainability related initiatives
Material Users’ needs
impacts and To the extent that the policies, practices and future initiatives do involve value chain counterparts, these disclosures may cover the value
risks and their chain. This reflects the need to align the definition of ‘impacts’ with that in ESRS Set 1 as this definition 1 also covers value chain. This
interaction with then avoids additional data requests outside the VSME.
strategy and Perspective 1
business model The materiality assessment regarding on the upstream value chain may be validly conducted by large undertakings without direct
(SBM-3) information from specific SME suppliers. Set 1 undertakings will typically conduct the assessment using average regional or sector data
to characterise the areas of potential impacts and risks associated with their value chain. Therefore, these disclosures are not expected
Processes to to result in significant trickle-down effect on SMEs separately from business or sustainability due diligence processes.
identify and
assess material Perspective 2
impacts and VSME does not include materiality assessment as considered too complex for non-listed SMEs. Instead, the “if applicable” principle is
risks (IRO-1) used.
Conclusion: no undue effect on SMEs expected from ESRS reporting
Perspective 1: effects on SME may be due to specific arrangements, if any
Perspective 2: since appropriate VSME disclosures exist to cover the corresponding information
Disclosures in VSME:
• Basic Module B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable economy
2.
• Comprehensive Module C2 – Description of practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy
General
Perspective 1
approach to
The undertaking’s reporting includes upstream and/or downstream value chain information to the extent that those policies and actions
Policies,
involve actors in the value chain. The collection of value chain data from SMEs is due primarily to business reasons and not to ESRS
Actions and
Set 1 reporting (if there are no PAT, no disclosure applies). In fact, the undertaking is expected to leverage information collected for
Targets (PAT)
business purposes (implementation of policies and actions, setting and monitoring targets). ESRS reporting may benefit from the value
chain information collected for business reasons (i.e., report to the extent that value chain is covered in the PAT), but ESRS reporting is
not the cause of the trickle-down or additional preparatory costs to SMEs. When the undertaking that prepares its sustainability
statement under ESRS Set 1 and it has no PAT to report for a given material matter, it simply states this fact.
Perspective 2
December 2024 Page 201 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
VSME has simplified semi-narrative requirements for practices, policies and future initiatives (former PAT) that pursue a reporting
objective consistent with the one in Set 1, as the ones described above. Set 1 undertaking are expected to leverage specific
arrangements, i.e. information that is collected for business purposes. No disclosure is required if the SME does not have practices,
policies or future initiatives to report.
Conclusion: no undue effect on SMEs expected from ESRS reporting
3. • Perspective 1: effects on SME may be due to specific arrangements, if any
• Perspective 2: since VSME covers this disclosure.
Transition plan Disclosures in VSME: Comprehensive Module C3 – GHG reduction targets and climate transition
for Climate (E1- Users’ needs (looking at the users of the VSME)
1) 16, This information is included in most business partner ESG questionnaires (lenders, investors, corporate clients). They need this
Specifically, information to establish their own transition plan for sustainability management purposes. ESRS do not require to have a transition plan
paragraph 16 in place but to disclose the plan if it exists.
(b) of ESRS E1 Perspective 1
requires to ESRS Set 1 preparers are expected to get information from suppliers to manage their transition plan and define their actions and
disclose the decarbonisation levers (when they exist). The information is expected to be collected for sustainability-management purposes, when it
decarbonization involves its suppliers in the actions from its transition plan. Therefore, ESRS reporting of these disclosures is not expected to result in
levers and significant additional trickle-down effect on SMEs, in isolation from other considerations such as business or sustainability due diligence
actions in the processes.
value chain. Perspective 2
VSME has very simplified requirements for transition plan, if applicable.
Conclusion: no undue effect on SMEs expected from ESRS reporting
• Perspective 1: since Set 1 preparers will generally use sectoral data instead of collecting direct data
• Perspective 2: since covered by VSME disclosures
4.
Disclosures in VSME:
• Basic module – B3 – GHG emission Scope 1 and 2
GHG emissions
• Comprehensive module – Consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3 (Basic Module)
(E1-6) - Scope
Users’ needs: GHG Scope 3 is considered too complex for the basic module, but an entity-specific consideration has been included in
317
Comprehensive module, depending on the sector of the SME. GHG scope 3 emission is not a requirement for VSME unless the
undertaking decides considering the sector, to report under the Comprehensive module. In this case the preparation of the disclosure
depends on the availability of sector proxies or estimates.
16 Included in row 9 of the value chain map in the draft EFRAG IG 2: VCIG.
17 Included in row 8 of the value chain map in the draft EFRAG IG 2: VCIG.
December 2024 Page 202 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
Perspective 1
Relevant Scope 3 figures can be calculated using average emission factors (i.e. secondary data). ESRS Set 1 preparers that have
Scope 3 GHG emission reduction targets (implying that they agree with the reductions by their suppliers) may collect direct information
from suppliers to monitor progress on such targets in the context of their due diligence processes. In this case, they would have more
precise information from suppliers and would not have to use proxies in their ESRS report. Therefore, the ability to ask direct
information from suppliers in the context of target setting and monitoring can support more and better understanding of climate actions
in the supply chain, but a valid calculation Scope 3 emissions can be achieved without it. Accordingly, there is no additional trickle-
down effect due to reporting, in isolation from other considerations such as business or sustainability due diligence processes.
Perspective 2
No requirements in VSME, but entity-specific consideration depending on sectors
Conclusion: Additional information (not for ESRS reporting but for the implementation of possible specific arrangements) may be needed
beyond VSME but is too specific to be covered by VSME
5. Disclosures in VSME:
Excluded in sector agnostic level due to the complexity.
GHG removals Perspective 1/ 2
(E1-7) When the SME has agreed to implement GHG removal actions as part of (or in agreement with) the GHG removal actions of a corporate
client, the SME is expected to transfer information to its client in the context of the specific project. This would be additional to the VSME,
as this type of information is too specific to be covered in a general (sector agnostic) standard like VSME as confirmed in the consultation).
6. Microplastics Conclusion: As for GHG removals above.
Disclosures in VSME:
Excluded in sector agnostic level due to the complexity.
7. Substances Conclusion: As for GHG removals above.
of concern and Perspective 1: effects on SME may be due to specific arrangements, if any
substances of Perspective 2: information (not for ESRS reporting but for the implementation of possible specific arrangements) may be needed
very high beyond VSME but is too specific to be covered by a sector agnostic general questionnaire
concern (E2-5) Disclosures in VSME: Excluded at sector agnostic level in VSME due to the complexity. Sector considerations will be covered in the
18 (as defined in consultation.
18 Referred to as procured materials, row 7 of the value chain map in the draft EFRAG IG 2: VCIG. Resource outflows per E5-4 in row 9 of the value chain map given SME specificities and the
qualitative nature of the requirement.
December 2024 Page 203 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
the REACH Perspective 1/2
regulation19) Corporate clients need the information on the sourced substances to manage their business, not for reporting purposes This has been
excluded as too specific to be covered in a general (sector agnostic) standard like VSME.
Conclusion: no undue effect on SMEs expected from ESRS reporting
Perspective 1: effects on SME may be due to specific arrangements, if any
Perspective 2: Additional information (not for ESRS reporting but for the implementation of possible specific arrangements) may be
needed beyond VSME but is too specific to be covered by VSME.
Disclosures in VSME: Excluded at sector agnostic level in VSME due to the complexity. However, B 7 Resource use, circular
economy, and waste management is required for SMEs operating in sectors using significant material flows for example manufacturing,
construction and/or packaging process (annual mass flow of relevant materials used); in addition all SMEs are requested to report on
8. annual generation waste and breakdown by type(hazardous/non) and annual waste diverted to reuse or recycle.
Resource
inflows (E5-4)
Perspective 1/2
For certain undertakings having a knowledge of the sustainability profile of their sourced material will be likely needed, which may result
in collection of data from suppliers. This would be additional to VSME, however according to the indications received so far by EFRAG
this type of information is too specific to be covered in a general (sector agnostic) questionnaire like VSME.
Conclusion:
Perspective 1: Possible trickle-down effect under specific arrangements for Set 1 preparers to be able to cover material sector
information and / or to disclose entity-specific disclosure, when they involve the value chain
9.
Perspective 2: not applicable, as the nature of the datapoint required by large undertakings to SMEs cannot be defined (due to entity-
specific nature of the disclosure).
Entity-specific
Disclosures in VSME:
disclosures
VSME par. 10 - Depending on the type of activities carried out by the undertaking, the inclusion of additional information (metrics and/or
narrative disclosures) not covered in this [draft] Standard is appropriate in order to disclose sustainability issues that are common in the
undertaking’s sector (i.e. typically encountered by businesses or entities operating within a specific industry or field) or that are specific
19 Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).
December 2024 Page 204 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Value chain Trickle-down assessment for VSME
datapoint in
ESRS Set 1
to the undertaking, as this supports the preparation of relevant, faithful, comparable, understandable and verifiable information. This
includes the consideration of information on Scope 3 GHG emissions (see paragraphs 50 to 53 of this [draft] Standard on the
consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3). Appendix B provides a list of possible sustainability issues.
This is not a ‘shall’ but expected to be considered in some sectors.
December 2024 Page 205 of 323
Annex 8: Trickle-down and value chain cap
Summarising the potential trickle-down effect
8. In conclusion, non-listed SMEs that apply VSME will in general be able to meet the data
requests defined for value chain in LSME ESRS, except for specific cases. These cases
correspond to value chain disclosures which are included in ESRS Set 1 (therefore SMEs may
receive data requests from large undertakings relating to these disclosures, either due to their
ESRS reporting obligations or for other obligations and business purposes), but are not
included in the VSME, due to their excessive complexity for non-listed SMEs in general. They
are principally of a sectorial nature (GHG Removals, microplastics, substances of concern/high
concern, resource inflows), mainly needed for management or specific arrangement purposes.
December 2024 Page 206 of 323
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the
SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved
version of the VSME
December 2024 Page 207 of 323
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 9: Changes agreed by the EFRAG SRB on the SR TEG approved version of the VSME
Annex 10: Timing and location of the sustainability report in European countries
Annex 10: Timing and location of the sustainability report in European countries20
Type of EU IFRS Austria Belgium Germany Ireland Italy Spain Sweden
enterprise Accounting
Directive
Non- Micro Minimum IFRS Social balance Same as per EU Managem Managem
listed requirement on Foundation sheet Accounting ent report ent report
Financial (2013). A (minimum Directive. (no non- (no non-
Statements: Guide for requirements) financial financial
Balance sheet
Micro-sized informatio informatio
- Balance sheet and profit and
Entities n) n)
loss account are
- Profit & loss Applying the
simplified with
account IFRS for
aggregation of
(Subject to SMEs (2009).
accounting items.
Member States
To note:
transposition Exemption to
“IFRS for
law) prepare the
SME” does
management
not refer to
report and to
the EU size
provide social or
but is
environmental
applicable to
disclosure.
non-public
Exemption to
accountable
prepare notes to
entities, so
the FS, providing
basically:
20 Sources: European Federation of Accountants and Auditors for SMEs (2018); Accountancy Europe, CSR Europa & GRI (2017); Zager & Decman (2016), Guidelines and Recommendations for
Improving the Micro Entities Model of Financial Reporting
December 2024 Page 272 of 323
Annex 10: Timing and location of the sustainability report in European countries
Type of EU IFRS Austria Belgium Germany Ireland Italy Spain Sweden
enterprise Accounting
Directive
unlisted- some very limited
entities disclosure.
Small Financial IFRS SMEs Manageme Social balance Reduced Same as per EU Managem Managem
Statements: nt report sheet Managem Accounting ent report ent report
(no non- ent report Directive. (no non- (no non-
- Balance
financial (no non- financial financial
Sheet Balance sheet
performanc financial informatio informatio
and profit and
- Profit and e informatio n) n)
loss account are
loss account information n)
simplified with
required)
- Management aggregation of
report: accounting items.
environmental
Exemption to
& social
prepare the
aspects
management
(subject to
report and to
national
provide social or
transposition
environmental
and option to
disclosure.
waive
obligation at Moreover,
national level) exemption to
December 2024 Page 273 of 323
Annex 10: Timing and location of the sustainability report in European countries
Type of EU IFRS Austria Belgium Germany Ireland Italy Spain Sweden
enterprise Accounting
Directive
prepare the cash
flow statement.
Mediu Financial IFRS SMEs Manageme Management Managem Full Same as per EU Managem Managem
m Statements: nt report report ent report Managem Accounting ent report ent report
(no non- ent report Directive. (no non- (no non-
-Balance Sheet and;
financial (no non- financial financial
Social balance Obligation to
-Profit and loss performanc financial informatio informatio
sheet prepare a
account e informatio n) n)
management
information n)
-Management report, including
required)
report: some disclosure
environmental on environmental
and social and employee
aspects (option matters.
to waive on
national level)
December 2024 Page 274 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key
findings – online survey responses
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
About this summary
1. EFRAG has conducted an online questionnaire-based survey to gather views from
stakeholders that have participated in the public consultation of the Exposure Draft for a
voluntary sustainability reporting standard for non-listed SMEs (including micro undertakings).
The results of the public consultation survey that included 311 participants as preparers, users
and other (consultants, accountants, etc.) are summarised in the online survey Detailed Report
VSME ED public consultation.
2. In addition, EFRAG Secretariat received 26 Comment Letters (directly uploaded through the
online survey), that were analysed in the online survey Detailed Report VSME public
consultation. Some organisations have sent both comment letters and answered to the online
questionnaire. In this case, to avoid double counting, following a consistency check between
the two submissions, the online questionnaire responses have been accounted (more
comparable).
3. The key messages emerged in the Detailed Report are summarised in this Executive Summary
of online survey, along the following categories of stakeholders: preparers (SMEs and SMEs
associations), “users” (including banks and large corporates heads of supply chains); and
“others” (including standard setters, NGOs, unions/worker representatives, academics,
consultants/accountants/assurance providers, associations etc.). Being VSME ED a voluntary
standard that builds on “market acceptance’ specific questions were dedicated to the
categories "preparers "and “users ".
4. The public consultation questionnaire was designed to receive feedback from constituents on
key aspects of the EDs, including (i) the proposed architecture; (ii) the relevance of the
proposed disclosures; (iii) the simplifications achieved; and (iv) the market acceptance. The
questionnaire aimed to capture users' and preparers' perspectives while offering the
opportunity to all other interested constituents to also provide feedback.
5. The online questionnaires consisted of three parts: Part 1 (the most critical questions that
EFRAG encourages to answer in full), Part 2 (additional and more detailed technical questions
that EFRAG encouraged to answer as much as possible) and Part 3 on Value Chain Cap.
6. The link to the detailed feedback from the online survey (VME ED Public Consultation) can be
found here.
7. This summary uses the following terms to describe the extent to which particular feedback was
shared by respondents (both when referring to total respondents or a subset of respondents).
All: 100% of respondents
Most: 80% to 99% of respondents
A majority: 50% to 79% of respondents
Some: 20% to 49% of respondents
A few: 1% to 19% of respondents
None: 0% of respondents
Part 1
8. Most of the respondents agree with the standard setting objectives (Q1). There was a
general call for adding digital tools, simplifying structure/language and adding guidance.
Preparers suggested the importance of EU Commission action to ensure that business
counterparts commit to abandon their questionnaires. The need to underscore legitimacy and
legal status of the VSME was also raised by the users. Users indicated that while VSME is able
December 2024 Page 275 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
to satisfy a large proportion of questionnaires, some additional requests would remain either
based on individual counterparts or transactions (by banks) or granular requests by sectors (for
large undertakings).
9. On the architecture (Q2) a majority of respondents agreed on the three modules and their
combination. There are general suggestions to: i) add online tools and guidance; ii) the
materiality analysis is highly complex/not feasible for SME and iii) simplify the structure or adapt
the disclosures for size, sector and potentially location. Some preparers suggest that BP
module should be prioritised compared to Narrative PAT Module. Others suggest creating a
“Basic Plus” Module with metrics from BP / PAT Modules. Users (banks/investors) support the
flexibility but note that it may be a source of confusion, as such they indicate preference for
Basic Module + Business Partner Module. Large undertakings users are hesitant on reliability
of qualitative disclosures.
10. On the Basic Module (Q3), a majority of respondents indicated support as a proportionate
entry level. User respondents were the most supportive, followed by preparers, the “other”
respondents were the least supportive. Suggestions included: i) further language simplification;
ii) additional guidance, examples, and online templates; iii) clarification on the usage of “if
applicable”.
11. For Narrative PAT Module (Q4), a majority of respondents supported the approach to reserve
it to undertakings that have policies, actions and targets in place. Frequently mentioned
concerns and suggestions from respondents were: i) need to simplify approach to materiality,
guidance and tools; ii) materiality analysis is a challenge for all. Many users found the narrative
nature of the module problematic, as it made it difficult to obtain the necessary information and
make comparisons across respondents or over time. A more quantitative approach is
preferrable (e.g. moving to a checklist of YES/NO questions). Preparers, in particular SMEs
associations, consider materiality and PAT over demanding and suggest deleting or postponing
it.
12. For the Business Partners (BP) Module (Q5), a majority of respondents agreed with the
approach to be a replacement and standardisation of information requests by business
partners. The following suggestions emerged across respondents type: i) delete materiality
analysis from BP module, replace with “if applicable”; ii) additional guidance and tools are
needed (e.g., on climate risks, transition plans, violations of OECD Guidelines); iii) too many
references to extensive documents written for multinational companies (e.g., OECD
guidelines), especially with English as a foreign language, iv) some metrics of BP module
should be part of the Basic module. On the users side it is highlighted that BP may not cover
entirely the requests by business partners, due to specific sector requests. Users also
suggested to emphasise the flexibility in par.11 and 19 i.e. adopting Basic module by topping
up some datapoints from PAT and BP modules. In addition, user banks associations point out
that some disclosures (BP 10 and BP 11) are not required by SFDR or BMR and thus suggest
removing them from the BP Module.
13. A majority of respondents identified a percentage of replacement of ESG questionnaires or
ESG requests (Q6) with VSME three modules higher than 50% and for some above 80%. The
user group “Large undertaking as SME’s business partner” and majority of the group
banks/investors indicated at 50% or above, and others such as “Rating Agency (as proxy for
user)” identified a degree of coverage higher than 80% if the Basic and BP Module modules
are filled out in detail. Many financial institutions acknowledge that VSME will not include all
data needed to manage their sustainability risks as this is highly individual. They also suggested
inclusion of further datapoints for VSME to be able to better meet their needs, as further
explained later in the report. An important message was that the success of the VSME depends
on a central European software interface into which the reporting companies can enter their
data and from which it can be read by business counterparts.
14. On the approach to sectors (Q7) in VSME, Option 3 was the most selected compared to the
other options. Option 3 suggests that undertakings should apply on a voluntary basis sector
specific guidelines and disclosures designed for non-listed SMEs, to be issued by EFRAG as
a non-authoritative annex to the future sector-ESRS. The main argument that emerged was
that non-listed SMEs need to be differentiated from listed SMEs as they have different
characteristics. To note that the same question was asked in the context of ESRS LSME (listed
SMEs) ED public consultation whose feedback is analysed separately.
December 2024 Page 276 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
Part 2
15. On the Principles for preparation, (Q8) most respondents agreed with the proposed
approach. While respondents across categories agreed with the proposal to report on a
consolidated basis (Q10), SME associations demanded for more flexibility for preparers to
choose whether to include subsidiaries. Some users suggested that subsidiaries sometimes
are irrelevant (such as when they are not consolidated for financial purposes) and insisted on
transparency regarding which entities are included in the reporting. Regarding the other
principles for preparation suggestions include: i) include positive impact aspects (as currently
the focus is on negative impact); ii) more guidance (i.e. on the term ‘comparable’); iii) flexibility
on frequency of reporting (preparers indicated yearly too cumbersome), iv) add guidance on
omittance of sensitive information (definitions of sensitive).
16. On the envisaged combination of modules (Q9 market acceptance), only few respondents
supported the combination Basic Module + Narrative-PAT Module. Some indicated preference
for Basic Module only, some for Basic + Business Partner and some for the 3 modules.
Respondents who preferred the 3 modules argued that this combination is for better
transparency and accountability. Many respondents also argued that Basic Module is not
sufficient as users of the sustainability reports require more information than what contained in
the Basic Module. Preparers had a relatively higher preference for either ‘all 3 modules’ or
‘Basic Module only’. “Basic Module” + “Narrative” was the least chosen option by preparers.
On the users’ side banks/investors indicated preference for “Basic Module + Business
Partners”, while large undertakings and rating agencies preferred the option “all 3 modules”.
17. On subsidiary exemption (Q11), most respondents’ users and preparers agreed; in the
category “others” a majority agreed. Respondents in this category, in particular the associations
of users and preparers, emphasised that since VSME is voluntary, (not in CSRD), specifying a
subsidiary exemption is unnecessary. Overall, they recommend leaving the choice to the
SMEs.
18. On the additional component (including sectors/ Q12), most users agreed; in the categories
preparers and “others” a majority agrees. Suggestion to define what is 'common to the
undertaking's sector'. Some users and preparers also indicated additional preparatory costs on
reporting entities in deciding on additional disclosures.
19. On the Basic Module (Q13-Q19) there was overall support. On the preparers’ side B1, B8 and
B9 were considered feasible by most respondents, while B2, B4, B5, B6, B7 and B12 were
considered feasible by a majority. B11 had more respondents who considered it difficult to
prepare. On B3 there are split views, with half considering it feasible and half not. On the users
side all disclosures from B1 to B10, as well as B12, were considered essential by most of the
respondents. On the other hand, B3 was considered the most essential for users. On B3
preparers were split, due to difficulty linked to data availability and/or collection, and the fact
that this disclosure requires the need for external support and guidance.
20. In general, on all disclosures, a majority of respondents requested additional guidance, with
respect to calculations and terminology. There were specific suggestions per each disclosure.
21. On the question to users whether additional datapoints (Q14) are needed in Basic
Module, split views emerged with about half of respondents indicating that no datapoints are
missing and the other half indicating that there are datapoints missing that are considered
important (please see below in this report). On the questions whether respondents see any
potential in disclosures B3-B7 for better alignment with existing reporting schemes (i.e.
EMAS) (Q15), split views emerged with a tiny majority (51%) of respondents agreeing. They
noted that SMEs already using EMAS should benefit from streamlined alignment with VSME
ED. Harmonization with recognized standards like GRI, IFRS, and CDP is seen as beneficial.
Some respondents highlighted that EMAS may be too complex and costly for SMEs. for
alignment with ESRS or ISO 14001.
22. On the question (Q16) on B9 if the practice in the respondent’s country includes commuting
incidents in B9 as work-related fatalities, most respondents agreed. They noted that the
legislation already defines these terms, though definitions may vary between countries. On the
question (Q17) related to B10 a) that asks to report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage
to the minimum wage “when a significant proportion of employees are compensated based
on wages subject to minimum wage rules,” and whether this provides relevant and comparable
December 2024 Page 277 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
information, a majority of respondents agreed, with some respondents disagreeing especially
SMEs business associations (in category “other respondents”). There are split views among
users regarding comparability of this ratio.
23. On the question on B11 (Q18) and whether respondents agreed with the voluntary approach
to the disclosure in B11, the majority of respondents agreed. However, in the category “other”,
business associations on both preparers and users side expressed disagreement, not as much
with voluntary approach, but with the inclusion of B11 in Basic Module. They asked to move it
outside the Basic Module, arguing that despite its voluntary nature, it imposes unrealistic
expectations on SMEs.
24. On the last question, on the guidance in VSME for the Basic Module (Q19), a majority of
respondents show support to the specific guidance provided that is regarded very useful for
SMEs. However, several respondents noted areas needing further clarification, particularly on
specific disclosures (e.g., B4, B5, B10) and calculation methods (e.g., GHG emissions,
biodiversity impacts). More practical examples and user-friendly tools are recommended to
enhance usability and comprehensive online tool to calculate metrics. Preparers also asked for
educational support.
25. On the principles of materiality (Q20) to be applied to the Narrative PAT and Business Partner
module (impact materiality, financial materiality and stakeholders’ engagement) and whether
they are considered proportionate, a majority of respondents agreed. However, the comments
indicated substantial concerns about materiality. The most recurring were: i) the complexity of
the materiality process and selection/engagement with stakeholders; ii) the need to provide
guidance, examples, templates, tools to help SMEs; iii) since the material process poses a
significant preparatory cost on SMEs, the suggestion to use sector-guidance instead or closed
ended questions; iv) add positive impacts as optional, not only financial opportunities v) for
preparers the financial risk is difficult.
26. On the question (Q21) related to disclose sustainability matters listed in Annex B of the
VSME ED (which is the same as AR 16 of ESRS 1 general requirements) that are material to
the undertaking and whether respondents agree with this approach, there was a mismatch
between the answers provided to the closed question (agree/disagree) and the qualitative
comments. In the statistics most preparers and a majority of users and “others” agreed.
However, the qualitative comments indicated disagreement on the substance. The most
recurring comments were the following: i) materiality analysis and sustainability matters are
considered too complex; ii) need to provide guidance, examples, charts, templates, tools to
help SMEs., iii) the fact that the materiality analysis is useful but heavy for SMEs, time
consuming and very costly; iv) suggestion to use sector-guidance pre-defined materiality
instead. Preparers indicated challenges on implementation, uncertainty and cost. SMEs
business association indicated preference to prioritise Basic Module and BP Module before the
Narrative PAT Module. Users indicated that PAT module is not considered attractive by SMEs
and not necessary. Standard setters commented that conducting a formal materiality analysis
should not be obligatory in line with the proportionality principle, as SMEs may refer to indicative
tables of material topics by sector. Some NGO respondents suggested that instead of focusing
on the materiality approach, the VSME standard could focus on enhanced sectoral guidance
for non-listed SMEs.
27. On the question (Q22) about the notion of “report only if applicable” in Basic Module and in
parts of the BP Module most of the respondents agreed. In the category “other” a majority
agreed. The most recurring comments were: i) support the “if applicable” approach that is useful
to replace materiality. ii) materiality is very demanding for SMEs; iii) there is a need to clarify
the difference between the following: “material”, “if applicable”, “if relevant”.
28. On the questions on the approach to “financial opportunities “as optional (Q23) most of the
respondents agreed. In the category “other” a majority agreed. The most recurring comments
were: i) including financial opportunities may help the undertaking to manage risk, build
awareness and identify new financial options; ii) to avoid a disproportionate preparatory cost
on SMEs, such reporting should remain optional.
29. On the question (Q24) regarding the principles for the preparation for the Narrative-PAT and
Business Partners Module most respondents agreed both with time horizons and with linkages
to financial report. Recurring comments on time horizons were: i) it guides the undertaking; ii)
administrative preparatory cost was mentioned as SMEs find a 5-year, time horizon difficult; iii)
December 2024 Page 278 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
more flexibility is needed. On alignment with financial statements, comments were: ii) support
as it avoids duplicating information; ii) it is challenging and complicated. Guidance is needed.
30. On the question (Q25) related to Narrative-PAT Module and which disclosures are considered
feasible/ not feasible by preparers or essential/not necessary by users, there was a mismatch
between the answers provided to the closed question (agree/disagree) and the qualitative
comments. Despite a statistical result indicating that a majority of respondents consider the
disclosures N1 to N5 feasible on the preparers side and essential on the user’s side, the content
of the comments is indicating the opposite, requiring substantial simplifications and indicating
complexity and preparatory costs both on users and preparers side. Concerns were stronger
in the comments of business associations both on the users and the preparers side, specifically
for N2, N3 and N4 that banks associations considered not needed. N2 and N3 were considered
complex by preparers associations.
31. On the question (Q26 for preparers only) if they anticipate to apply the Narrative-PAT module,
having implemented policies, actions and targets (PAT) due to requests by counterparties in
the value chain, the answers were split between yes and no. A tiny majority (51%) answered
that this was not the case, as the request of counterparties in the value chain is seen as an
additional argument since every company needs such a strategy anyway. However, many
believed that counterparties have no interest in the Narrative-PAT module, but only in Basic
Module and Business Partner Module.
32. On the question (Q27 for users only) if users considered that some datapoints were missing in
the Narrative PAT Module, the majority of respondents answered that this is not the case.
33. On the question (Q28) about N3 (disclosure of policies, actions and targets to manage material
sustainability matters) and if respondents would see potential for better alignment with other
reporting schemes such as the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS –
Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009), there were split views and a relatively lower response rate
compared to other questions. Respondents indicated being not familiar with EMAS and other
schemes.
34. On the Business Partner module and the question (Q29) related to the inclusion of greenhouse
gas (GHG) Scope 3 emissions as additional component (entity-specific) being material in
certain sectors, a majority of respondents agreed that scope 3 should be included, the most
supportive being users. Preparers indicated that additional sector guidance or
calculation/software would be needed. SME associations state that it is highly difficult, and they
do not support its inclusion in the standard. Users also suggested EU database and allowing
use of proxy emission factors and industry averages to enable SMEs (the EFRAG Secretariat
notes that the use of proxies it not only a possibility in the standard but what it is expected in
general to be used). The group “other” expressed lowest support.
35. On the question (Q30) regarding each of the disclosures in the Business Partner module,
for preparers if they are feasible or difficult to prepare and for users if they are essential
or not necessary. Most of the preparers indicated that BP1, BP2, BP10 and BP11 are feasible,
while BP5, BP6, BP8 and BP9 were considered feasible by the majority of preparers. On BP3,
BP4 and BP7 there are split views with half of the preparers considering it feasible, and the
other half difficult. On the users’ side, BP1, BP2, BP3, BP4, BP5 and BP8 were considered
essential by most. BP6, BP7, BP8 and BP10 were considered essential by a majority but
needed some simplifications. BP11 was considered not necessary by users. Banks
associations considered BP2 and BP10 not needed. In general respondents requested more
guidance/instructions or calculation tools. There were also requests to drop “materiality” in this
module and put everything as “if applicable”.
36. On the question (Q31) to users if they agreed with the approach that in Business Partner
modules disclosures are reported if applicable, with the exception of BP 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 that
are omitted when considered not material, the majority of users did not agree. The majority
(especially banks) preferred to remove materiality from the module and have all disclosures “if
applicable” a few also mentioned the option “report if you have”.
37. On the question (Q32) regarding BP7, BP8 and BP9 (human rights) and alignment to the
Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation (SFDR) and whether there would be alternative
or more suitable disclosures, the majority of respondents were supportive of the SFDR
alignment or could not propose alternatives. Both users and preparers asked, however, for
December 2024 Page 279 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
simplifications (i.e. referencing existing national regulations or standards instead of
international frameworks, move BP7 to Basic and reformulate under HR, merge and simplify
BP8 and BP9).
38. On the question (Q33) if it would be beneficial to split the Business Partners (BP) Module
into sub-modules depending on the nature of the user (for example “banks”, “investors”, “large
corporates”), there were split views with a tiny majority (52%) in favour of the split. The
arguments in favour were improve utility of the information, the arguments opposed were that
division in sub-modules would over complexify. Associations of both prepares and users banks
were in favour of split.
39. On the question (Q34) regarding datapoints related to the EU-taxonomy regulation
considering the work of the Sustainable Finance to make a proportionate tool for EU-taxonomy
available, the majority of respondents was not in favour. Many commented that it would be too
complex and difficult to understand the taxonomy for SMEs, given their limited resources.
General suggestion to postpone this, recognising that it may enhance market opportunities for
SMEs.
40. On the question (Q35) about the guidance developed for the Business Partners Module
and whether respondents considered it useful and sufficient, the majority agreed that this was
the case. Some pointed out remaining concerns on language, calculation complexity, sector-
guidance, need for clearer definitions and hyperlink, online tools to guide navigation and
reporting.
41. On the question (Q36) for users whether there any datapoint(s) were missing from this
module that users consider as essential to meet their information needs, the majority of
respondents disagreed and considered that no additional datapoints were needed. Some
suggested to provide distinction between data related to own operations, clients (downstream),
and suppliers (upstream), another suggestion was to foster data accessibility and national
authorities to identify which VSME points are already covered by national regulations, so
companies quickly know if they comply with VSME via local laws.
42. On the question (Q37) for users whether Appendix C is clear, all the respondents mentioned
that Appendix C is clear and helps reconcile the data points in VSME ED. On question (Q38)
asking users whether the VSME ED can replace the existing ESG questionnaires if
additional datapoints are added, a slight majority agreed with the question. However, a slight
majority of banks/ investors stated otherwise.
43. Questions 39 and 40 provided the possibility to respondents to submit additional comments for
topics that they were no questioned about but rather wished to express their opinion none the
less. These comments are more general and can be found at the respective detailed answers.
Part 3
44. Concerning the two questions on the value chain cap (Q41 and Q42)21, a majority of
preparer and user respondents agree with current value chain cap. However, national and
European SME associations as well as a majority of standard setters disagree and requested
that VSME be the cap.
Overview of public consultation respondents
1. EFRAG registered 311 respondents to the online public consultation questionnaire.
General Breakdown by Type of Respondent Number of respondents
Preparer 126
User 39
21 Please note that there are two different pools of respondents to Value Chain Cap questions. Here we consider the feedback
of those that replied to VSME consultation.
December 2024 Page 280 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
Other 14622
General Breakdown by Type of Respondent
Other
Preparer
47%
40%
User
13%
Breakdown of respondents by country
Luxembourg Norway Poland
Ireland 1% 2% 4%
1% Italy
Greece
18%
1%
Bulgaria
4%
Finland
3%
Austria
10%
Europe
4% Belgium
12%
Spain
France
7%
9%
Denmark
Germany Netherlands Sweden 2%
15%
4% 2%
Sector Breakdown of respondents
Utilities Agriculture Construction
Transportation 1% 4% 4%
1%
Entertainment
Technology 1%
4%
Financial Institutions
15%
Health Care
2%
Services
39%
Manufacturing
20%
Sales and Trade Real Estate
8% 1%
22 The category ‘Other’ includes also business associations representing preparers or users, but that did a self-classification
under “other, if other please specify”. Hence, they have identified themselves not as preparers or users. EFRAG Secretariat
considered that a reclassification could not be implemented without disrupting the analysis, as the category preparers and
users had specific questions in the survey’s questionnaire, different form the category “others”.
December 2024 Page 281 of 323
Annex 11: Public consultation – Key findings – online survey responses
Detailed Breakdown by type of preparer
Business / Sector international/ European or national
Small practitioner organizations (as proxy for SMEs)
accountant (SMP) working 5%
with small and medium-
sized enterprise (SME)
Micro undertaking (below
3%
10 employees)
31%
Medium undertaking Small undertaking
(between 50 and 250 (between 10 and 50
employees) employees)
32% 29%
Detailed Breakdown by type of user
Small and medium
sized enterprise
User of sustainability
(SME) as SME's
reporting information (e.g.
business partner
bank or investor)
15%
36%
Business / Sector international/ European
or national organizations (as proxy for
SMEs)
26%
Rating Agency (as Large undertaking as SME’s
proxy for user) business partner
5% 18%
Detailed Breakdown by type of OTHER respondent
National or European authority/Standard Setter
13%
Other (please specify)
45%
Non-Government Organization (“NGO”)
14%
Unions/Worker representatives
3%
Academic or research institution
Accountant/Consulting services/Assurance provider
6%
19%
December 2024 Page 282 of 323
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
About this summary
1. This summary includes results from the field test workshops (in total 10 plus 4 individual
interviews) that were organised by EFRAG secretariat to discuss respondent’s written surveys.
In addition, EFRAG secretariat has conducted a specific workshop with ESG data platforms
(who match online demand and supply of ESG data) participating in the field test of the VSME
ED. These platforms have provided aggregated written feedback from their constituencies that
are prepares (SMEs) and users (large corporates or banks as SMEs business counterparts)
that can be found in specific tables of this report.
2. For each question the analysis includes insights at the aggregated level and insights by
stakeholders’ group (micro, small, medium preparer, consultants, rating agency, accountants,
users including banks and large corporates heads of supply chains, etc.).
3. The link to the detailed feedback from the field test can be found here.
4. This report uses the following terms to describe the extent to which particular feedback was
shared by respondents (both when referring to total respondents or a subset of respondents).
Most: 80% to 99% of respondents
A majority: 50% to 79% of respondents
Some: 20% to 49% of respondents
A few: 1% to 19% of respondents
5. From the preparers’ perspective, the participation to the field test has taken two forms: (a) the
actual preparation of (or part of) the disclosures in VSME ED, answer to the field test
questionnaire and participation to workshops and/or interviews with EFRAG Secretariat; or (b)
(simplified approach) pre- preparation (such as assessment of the challenges and benefits
deriving from the disclosures in VSME), answer to the field test questionnaire and participation
to workshops and/or interviews with EFRAG Secretariat.
6. From the users’ perspective, the participation to the field test required to answer the field test
questionnaire and to participate to workshops and/or bilateral interviews with EFRAG
Secretariat.
7. The field test focuses on the following key elements:
(a) The costs and challenges associated with each of the disclosures
(b) The understandability of the guidance provided in the ED and its ability to support the
implementation of the disclosure requirements; and
(c) The expected benefits of the disclosures.
8. Preparers could choose to test one or more of the following modules: i) Basic Module; ii)
Narrative-PAT Module; iii) Business Partners Module. The application of the general principles
for the preparation of the sustainability report is considered as part of each module.
9. A prerequisite to participation in the field test was the completion of the consultation
questionnaire as well as the field test questionnaire. The deadline for submitting answers to the
field test was 21 April 2024. The field test workshops and interviews tool place in May 2024.
10. The analysis and structure of this report has been carried out by analysing the 5 questions from
the field test. The same five questions have been asked for each module as follows:
Q1 – The operational challenges posed by the disclosures of each of the three modules.
December 2024 Page 283 of 323
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
Q2 – The difficulty of disclosing the metrics of each single disclosure (analysed by module). This
question was directed to PREPARERS.
Q3 – The costs brought by disclosing for each module.
Q4 – The relevance of the disclosures (per module). This question was directed to USERS.
Q5 – The benefits brought by the VSME. This encompasses a variety of factors analysed in the
sections in the detailed report.
Summary of the key findings
11. The participation in the field test involved a total of 111 preparers (micro, small and medium
undertakings), 24 proxy for prepares and 29 users or proxy for users.
12. Four ESG data platforms were also involved in the field test through a dedicated workshop and
a dedicated questionnaire template document, i.e. each platform has implemented VSME ED
to collect real disclosures from members using a tailored data model. This corresponds as well
to their intention to adopt VSME in the future as structured data model to collect ESG
information from members. They gave both a preparer and a user-based perspective, reflecting
the existence of two different types of users.
13. These platforms represent all together over 23,000 SMEs across Europe and over 100,000
large undertakings worldwide. They therefore provide a rather significant perspective on the
difficulty and relevance of various disclosures. Concretely the platforms tested VSME ED by
replacing it with their current online questionnaires. Through this process over 600 SMEs
participated in the field test. For these reasons, platform field tests results have been provided
separately in this report.
14. There is wide support for the Basic Module (30% of field test participants have chosen to use
the Basic Module only, and all others either used it in combination with the Narrative PAT
Module or with the Business Partner Module or both). The Basic Module is assessed to be both
feasible from the preparer's point of view and useful from the users’ point of view.
15. There are, however, requests for additional guidance on methodologies and online calculation
tools for certain metrics (i.e. B3- Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, B6- Water or B7 -
Resource use, circular economy and waste management) or to add definitions for others (B10
Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining and training).
16. For some disclosures such as B5-Biodiversity or B11-Workers in the value chain, affected
communities, consumers and end-users, the requests are either to remove those disclosures
or replace part of them with other metrics.
17. In general, it was suggested to use more explicit formulation on “if applicable” (i.e. for B4).
Many preparers underlined that certain disclosures are not applicable to them, and thus, they
are not reported (i.e., omitted). On the other hand, the users asked that in case of omittance of
a data point because it is not applicable, it shall be clear in VSME ED that this information shall
be considered not material by users.
18. For the Narrative PAT Module there is a general indication that this module presents some
operational challenges from the preparers’ perspective. The biggest challenge connected to
this module is the materiality analysis, and consequently, the disclosures N2 – Material
sustainability matters and N3 – Management of material sustainability matters are perceived
as to be of great difficulty. The main reason is that SMEs tend to be less equipped and would
need the help of consultants or, alternatively, a very basic fundamental step-bystep guidance
for materiality analysis, with very visual explanations and an online scroll-down menu to choose
from. A pre-defined grid of material matters by sector was considered an important addition to
help SMEs. The involvement of the top level in the process is also considered an issue as this
module is connected to strategy and governance and requires stakeholders’ engagement.
Concerns about materiality are expressed both on the preparers and users’ sides. Despite
materiality remaining a relevant disclosure for certain user categories (e.g. large undertakings),
users understand the difficulty it poses to SMEs. Banks/ investors have highlighted concerns
associated with materiality analysis, acknowledging the complexity of this analysis for SMEs.
As such, they indicated generally preferring a replacement of the undertaking materiality
December 2024 Page 284 of 323
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
analysis with a pre-defined list of sustainability matters by sector. This practice is adopted by
some banks/investors as emerged in the workshops.
19. Conversely, N5 – Governance: responsibilities in relation to sustainability matters, appears to
be perceived as a disclosure of low difficult, with high relevance for users, highlighting its
importance within the module.
20. N1 – Strategy: business model and sustainability – related initiatives and N4 – Key
stakeholders, appear to be disclosure of low difficulty, similarly to N5. However, N1 and N4
appear to have a lower relevance compared to N5 for users.
21. Overall, the Narrative-PAT Module and the Business Partners Module are perceived to have
greater language complexity compared to the basic module.
22. Concerning the Business Partner Module, respondent preparers indicated some operational
challenges, with a diversified view according to the various disclosures. Some disclosures such
as BP1 - Revenues from certain sectors BP2 - Gender diversity ratio in governance body, BP6
- Hazardous waste and/or radioactive waste ratio, BP10 – work-life balance and BP11 –
number of apprentices were considered of low difficulty by the majority of respondents.
23. However, from the user perspective BP10 – Work-life balance and BP11 – Number of
apprentices have relatively low benefits.
24. Other disclosures like BP3 – GHG emissions reduction target, BP4 – Transition plan for climate
change mitigation, BP5 – Physical risks from climate change, were considered of high or
medium difficulty by the majority of the respondents. Arguments concern the difficulty linked to
target settings (science-based) for SMEs and request for adapted or simplified guides and
frameworks (i.e., climate transition plans, scenarios, physical risks).
25. From the users’ perspective, BP3 is considered of high relevance by most respondents and
BP4 by a majority, and BP5 is considered of medium to low importance by some especially in
terms of reliability/quality of disclosure.
26. For BP7 – Alignment with internationally recognised instruments and BP8 – Processes to
monitor compliance and mechanisms to address violations, preparers’ views are split between
low, medium, and high difficulty. The main challenges are related to legal complexities and
overlaps in reconciling undertaking policy with international instruments as well as EU/national
laws. Hence examples or guidance on those may increase the uptake.
27. Most of the preparers consider BP9 – Violations of OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises or the UN guiding Principles as straightforward with information being relatively
easy to obtain and thus seen as low in difficulty. From the users' perspectives, BP7 was
perceived as of high relevance, while on BP8 there were split views on its relevance (between
medium and high relevance) and for BP9 there was less support for its relevance (split between
low, medium and high).
28. In general, there were requests to clarify the application of materiality analysis for this module.
29. On the costs side, respondents indicated that costs are generally higher for the first year, driven
by HR costs, consultancy and IT tools. As companies gain experience and establish processes,
the need for consultancy decreases, leading to lower costs in subsequent years (generally
halved costs). Especially consultancy and IT costs seem to drop significantly. Many
undertakings expect high costs in the first year to obtain in-house expertise and training for
existing personnel. While these costs are expected to decrease in subsequent years, they will
remain important.
30. On the benefit side, different types of benefits were perceived depending on the module. Most
of the BM respondents stated that the main benefits (preparers and users combined) of the
basic module are the synergies and increased awareness module. Most (preparers and users
combined) of the Narrative-PAT module respondents stated that the main benefit this module
brings is the increased awareness and monitoring of sustainability issues, in addition these
respondents stated that it brings them greater access to finance. Regarding the BP module,
preparers and users (combined) stated that this module brings them benefits related to having
access to more clients and better market positioning / competitiveness. The perceived types of
benefits brought by the BP module were estimated to bring similar benefit estimations. Users
December 2024 Page 285 of 323
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
specifically mentioned that the BP module is most beneficial with regard to the synergies it
brings with other questionnaires.
31. Finally, regarding the feedback from the online ESG data platforms (4), which represent
multipliers of the users' and preparers' perspectives, the key messages are as follows. Platform
preparers showcased a generally higher level of disclosure difficulty on disclosures B3, B4, B5,
B11 in the Basic Module and disclosures BP3, BP4, BP5 in Business Partners Module.
Essentially, these disclosures (apart from B11, which is a social metric) are heavily linked to
environmental metrics. These are appearing as more challenging to disclose compared to other
social metrics. Additionally, materiality, especially N3, has shown to be challenging. These
difficulties were higher for smaller undertakings.
32. The most relevant disclosures for platforms were B3, B6, B9 in Basic Module and disclosures
BP3 and BP4 in Business Partners Module. These disclosures were highlighted as very
relevant metrics. Other disclosures from the Basic Module and Business Partners Module were
generally perceived as of high to medium relevance. The only disclosure deemed of low
relevance by half of the platforms was B11.
33. The relevance perceived for the disclosures in Narrative-PAT Module by platforms was split.
Half considered N1 to N5 relevant, the other half considered it of either medium or low
relevance. With N5 being the most relevant. 1 platform respondent stated that N1-N4 have low
relevance currently as they are not collecting those metrics.
General overview of field test respondents
Breakdown by category
Number of respondents by category
28
25
20
19
17
16
15
9
6
5
2 2
Micro Micro Small Small Medium Medium Consultants as Accounting Consultant as Users/banks, Large Rating agency
undertaking undertaking undertaking undertaking undertaking undertaking preparer firms, auditing user users undertaking as
that did that did that did that did that did that did firms, and associations SME’s value
OPTION A OPTION B OPTION A OPTION B OPTION A OPTION B reporting and other chain partner
software/tools proxies for
as preparers users
Total Number of Field Test Respondents: 164
December 2024 Page 286 of 323
Annex 12: Field test – Key findings
Breakdown by country
Portugal
Poland Slovenia
1%
7% 1%
Luxembourg
1% Norway Italy
5%
27%
Greece
6%
Estonia
Czech Republic 1%
1%
Croatia
1%
Finland
Austria 2%
5%
Lithuania Spain Belgium
2% 3% 8%
Germany France
11% 9%
Netherlands Sweden Denmark
6% 1% 2%
Breakdown of respondents with modules chosen:
Module chosen Number of respondents that selected this option
Basic Module only 50
Basic and PAT Modules 20
Basic and Business Partners Modules 14
All three modules 80
Number of respondents for each option
Basic Module
All three only
modules 30%
49%
Basic and PAT
Modules
9%
Basic and
Business Partners
Modules
12%
December 2024 Page 287 of 323
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment
Letters Only VSME ED Public Consultation
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only - VSME ED Public
Consultation
About this summary
1. EFRAG Secretariat has received 22 Comment Letters outside the online survey (2 of which were
not published for confidentiality purposes). The result of the analysis of those letters have been
summarised in this Detailed Report. Please note that 19 of the 20 comment letters refer to
associations, standard setters or authorities and not to individual stakeholders. As such their
weight has been considered when describing the trends in the overall conclusions.
2. This summary is organised by stakeholders’ group as follows: “preparers” (business associations
representing SMEs), “user” (a rating agency) and “others” (associations of accountants, standard
setters, academic and authorities).
3. The link to the detailed feedback from the comment letters can be found here.
Executive Summary of feedback received outside online survey, via comment letters
4. From the analysis of the comment letters received outside the online questionnaire, the
following key messages emerged.
5. General feedback on VSME ED's objective and its role to replace business questionnaires: the
business associations representing preparers indicated their support for VSME as a tool to make
reporting manageable and replace business partners questionnaire, but further simplification is
generally needed. Suggestions included: i) language simplifications, ii) online reporting template
(platform) to facilitate the exchange of info and make the standard more interactive; iii) add
examples; iv) avoid references to external links (i.e. the WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas or the
GHG protocol) or make sure that translation in all EU language is available; v) education support
to implement VSME needed. Another suggestion was to add in the objectives that another
"business counterpart "of the VSME are public authorities (i.e. sustainability information for public
tenders). The user (rating agency) was supportive of the VSME as reporting tool and to replace
business partners questionnaires to an extent but considered that business partners would still
require 3rd parties to engage with SMEs, including through questionnaires, to: i) analyse the data
based on their specific needs or ii) provide an opinion on the level of performance disclosed by
SMEs. Standard Setters and Accountants associations generally supported the role of the
VSME as a simple reporting tool, one standard setter mentioned the replacement of business
partners questionnaire may be relatively low. Authorities: generally supported VSME as it will
allow SMEs to benefit from a standardized and simple reporting framework.
6. On the Architecture and modular approach: business associations preparers expressed
preferences for Basic Module; one business association expressly asked to stick to Basic Module
only and proposed it being composed of 12 metrics (see agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback
from comment letters (outside online Survey)). Another indicated that SFDR datapoints shall not
be included in Business Partner Module. Another asked to clarify in case of omittance because
“not applicable” how CSRD companies will be able to deal with it. User rating agency agrees
that the module combinations are adequate to accommodate the different needs. Standard
setters support the modular approach and the flexibility. One standard setter asked for SMEs to
provide information when they choose to change the adopted modules. Accountant associations
overall supported the modular approach but two of them highlighted that the Basic Module alone
would not be sufficient to cover information requests and a combination of Basic + BP Module
would be necessary. Academic: support the modular approach, but VSME is too detailed.
Authorities also support a modular approach. Some underline the importance to develop open
access tool to facilitate reporting. There was one suggestion to split Business Partners Module
in sub-modules according to the type of counterparts needs (bank, investor, supply
chain/larger/smaller). Another suggested that some datapoints could be deleted while others shall
be added.
December 2024 Page 288 of 323
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only VSME ED Public Consultation
7. Materiality: business associations preparers indicate that materiality remains difficult. There are
suggestions to remove or provide more sector guidance. One suggests replacing it with a “comply
or explain” approach to reduce the cost of preparation. There is no comment from the user
rating agency on this. Standard setters indicated that the materiality analysis is difficult but
could be kept as risk management tool for SMEs and because it only applies to PAT module, i.e.
undertaking who already have PAT in place. They requested simplification and adapted guidance.
Accountant associations deem that simplified guidance should be provided for materiality
analysis being highly difficult for SMEs to understand (flow chart type) and suggest adding positive
impacts. One suggests removing materiality analysis and replace it with the “if applicable
approach”. Academic: no specific views on materiality but agreement with the “if applicable
approach” to replace materiality in the Basic Module. Authorities see the materiality as
complicated. Recommendations: i) replace with interactive online tool based on Appendix B, ii)
SMEs to provide brief explanations for their sustainability topic selections based on their activities
and context, ii) list of sustainability matters by sector.
8. Consolidated reporting and subsidiary exemption, only preparers commented by supporting
it, some indicate that due to voluntary reporting, it would be up to the companies to decide on
consolidated report or gradually include subsidiaries.
9. Timing and location: one business association preparer asks to broaden reference to “other
documents” also to mandatory public controls of the sustainability objectives (e.g. the verification
by inspectors or public auditors of the democratic or worker/users-participated governance)”. One
authority suggests ensuring that the sustainability report shall be prepared on annual basis
(alignment with Pillar 3 framework).
10. Sector-specific dimension: business association preparers support sector specific guidelines
designed for non-listed SMEs. This is also supported by the user rating agency. One standard
setter suggested that if and when EFRAG develops a sectorial ESRS adapted to SME, reference
to sector in the VSME (i.e. B6, B7, BP1, BP3 among others) may need to be deleted.
Accountants support sectors guidelines to apply both listed and non-listed SMEs, one
emphasises the need to develop an implementation guidance outlining material sustainability
issues per sector. Authorities suggest increasing the focus on sectors and provide guidance on
this basis: in particular, simplify the materiality analysis by drawing up a brief guide to clarify the
main material issues by sectors and by specifying how to conduct a simplified materiality
assessment for SMEs.
11. Value chain cap: business associations preparers indicate that VSME should serve as “value
chain cap” to ensure maximum amount of the VSME data that reporting entities can request. The
user rating agency supports the value chain approach adopted by EFRAG; undue effect is not
expected from ESRS reporting. Standard setters have split views. One standard setter agrees
with LSME being the value chain cap, the other suggest VSME to be the value chain cap. An
accountant highlighted that VSME should be the Value Chain Cap and called for greater
alignment between ESRS LSME and VSME. Academic had no comments. One authority
suggests that VSME could be better placed than LSME ESRS for the “cap in the value chain”
role.
12. EU Taxonomy: one preparer suggests that VSME should not include additional data points to
cover EU Taxonomy disclosures as the simplified methodology is work in progress. One authority
suggests adding a “taxonomy module” in BP Module, based on Sustainable Finance Platform
streamlined approach.
13. On the Basic Module: business associations preparers request to further simplify disclosures to
ensure SMEs are able to independently disclose BM datapoints without needing external ESG
experts. Additionally, there is a request by preparers to avoid using external references to EMAS,
international legislation/ standards and EU law as SMEs are no familiar with these technicalities.
There was a general request by some preparers to delete B11 given its complexity. One preparer
requested to delete B12. For B2 there were specific requests to add datapoint relevant for
cooperative enterprises specific requests. With regard to specific disclosures, specific changes
were requested for disclosures B3, B9, B10; these are available in the agenda paper 05-05 –
Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). The user (rating agency)
December 2024 Page 289 of 323
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only VSME ED Public Consultation
suggested to provide an overview of the disclosures in VSME reported “if applicable”. To facilitate
SMEs. In addition, the user analysed the disclosures that it is already covering through its own
rating questionnaires. The disclosures that are partially or not currently covered in this
questionnaire are: B4 (partially), B5, B6 (partially), B7 (partially), B8 (partially), B10 – B12
(partially). B3 and B9 are entirely covered. Standard setters asked to clarify the “if applicable”
approach to be better understood in the various disclosures. Additionally, they suggested to move
BP6 (BPM) into B7 (BM). For B11 Standard Setters suggested to add positive aspect as well. The
more specific suggestions provided for the other disclosures can be found in the agenda paper
05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). Accountants suggested
to delete B11. Additionally requests to align ESRS S1 definition to B8, B9, and B10, expanding
the VSME definition of own workforce. For other disclosures, accountants request for more
simplifications and examples on top of specific requests that can be found in the agenda paper
05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). Academics expressed
no comments on the module. Authorities requested for simplified guidance for B3, B5 and B6.
Specific requests on disclosure can be found in the agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback from
comment letters (outside online Survey).
Executive Summary of feedback received outside online survey, via comment letters
14. From the analysis of the comment letters received outside the online questionnaire, the following
key messages emerged.
15. General feedback on VSME ED's objective and its role to replace business questionnaires: the
business associations representing preparers indicated their support for VSME as a tool to make
reporting manageable and replace business partners questionnaire, but further simplification is
generally needed. Suggestions included: i) language simplifications, ii) online reporting template
(platform) to facilitate the exchange of info and make the standard more interactive; iii) add
examples; iv) avoid references to external links (i.e. the WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas or the
GHG protocol) or make sure that translation in all EU language is available; v) education support
to implement VSME needed. Another suggestion was to add in the objectives that another
"business counterpart "of the VSME are public authorities (i.e. sustainability information for public
tenders). The user (rating agency) was supportive of the VSME as reporting tool and to replace
business partners questionnaires to an extent but considered that business partners would still
require 3rd parties to engage with SMEs, including through questionnaires, to: i) analyse the data
based on their specific needs or ii) provide an opinion on the level of performance disclosed by
SMEs. Standard Setters and Accountants associations generally supported the role of the
VSME as a simple reporting tool, one standard setter mentioned the replacement of business
partners questionnaire may be relatively low. Authorities: generally supported VSME as it will
allow SMEs to benefit from a standardized and simple reporting framework.
16. On the Architecture and modular approach: business associations preparers expressed
preferences for Basic Module; one business association expressly asked to stick to Basic Module
only and proposed it being composed of 12 metrics (see agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback
from comment letters (outside online Survey)). Another indicated that SFDR datapoints shall not
be included in Business Partner Module. Another asked to clarify in case of omittance because
“not applicable” how CSRD companies will be able to deal with it. User rating agency agrees
that the module combinations are adequate to accommodate the different needs. Standard
setters support the modular approach and the flexibility. One standard setter asked for SMEs to
provide information when they choose to change the adopted modules. Accountant associations
overall supported the modular approach but two of them highlighted that the Basic Module alone
would not be sufficient to cover information requests and a combination of Basic + BP Module
would be necessary. Academic: support the modular approach, but VSME is too detailed.
Authorities also support a modular approach. Some underline the importance to develop open
access tool to facilitate reporting. There was one suggestion to split Business Partners Module
in sub-modules according to the type of counterparts needs (bank, investor, supply
chain/larger/smaller). Another suggested that some datapoints could be deleted while others shall
be added.
December 2024 Page 290 of 323
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only VSME ED Public Consultation
17. Materiality: business associations preparers indicate that materiality remains difficult. There are
suggestions to remove or provide more sector guidance. One suggests replacing it with a “comply
or explain” approach to reduce the cost of preparation. There is no comment from the user
rating agency on this. Standard setters indicated that the materiality analysis is difficult but
could be kept as risk management tool for SMEs and because it only applies to PAT module, i.e.
undertaking who already have PAT in place. They requested simplification and adapted guidance.
Accountant associations deem that simplified guidance should be provided for materiality
analysis being highly difficult for SMEs to understand (flow chart type) and suggest adding positive
impacts. One suggests removing materiality analysis and replace it with the “if applicable
approach”. Academic: no specific views on materiality but agreement with the “if applicable
approach” to replace materiality in the Basic Module. Authorities see the materiality as
complicated. Recommendations: i) replace with interactive online tool based on Appendix B, ii)
SMEs to provide brief explanations for their sustainability topic selections based on their activities
and context, ii) list of sustainability matters by sector.
18. Consolidated reporting and subsidiary exemption, only preparers commented by supporting
it, some indicate that due to voluntary reporting, it would be up to the companies to decide on
consolidated report or gradually include subsidiaries.
19. Timing and location: one business association preparer asks to broaden reference to “other
documents” also to mandatory public controls of the sustainability objectives (e.g. the verification
by inspectors or public auditors of the democratic or worker/users-participated governance)”. One
authority suggests ensuring that the sustainability report shall be prepared on annual basis
(alignment with Pillar 3 framework).
20. Sector-specific dimension: business association preparers support sector specific guidelines
designed for non-listed SMEs. This is also supported by the user rating agency. One standard
setter suggested that if and when EFRAG develops a sectorial ESRS adapted to SME, reference
to sector in the VSME (i.e. B6, B7, BP1, BP3 among others) may need to be deleted.
Accountants support sectors guidelines to apply both listed and non-listed SMEs, one
emphasises the need to develop guidance outlining material sustainability issues per sector.
Authorities suggest increasing the focus on sectors and provide guidance on this basis: in
particular, simplify the materiality analysis by drawing up a brief guide to clarify the main material
issues by sectors and by specifying how to conduct a simplified materiality assessment for SMEs.
Value chain cap: business associations preparers indicate that VSME should serve as “value
chain cap” to ensure maximum amount of the VSME data that reporting entities can request. The
user rating agency supports the value chain approach adopted by EFRAG; undue effect is not
expected from ESRS reporting. Standard setters have split views. One standard setter agrees
with LSME being the value chain cap, the other suggest VSME to be the value chain cap. An
accountant highlighted that VSME should be the Value Chain Cap and called for greater
alignment between ESRS LSME and VSME. Academic had no comments. One authority
suggests that VSME could be better placed than LSME ESRS for the “cap in the value chain”
role. EU Taxonomy: one preparer suggests that VSME should not include additional data points
to cover EU Taxonomy disclosures as the simplified methodology is work in progress. One
authority suggests adding a “taxonomy module” in BP Module, based on Sustainable Finance
Platform streamlined approach.
21. On the Basic Module: business associations preparers request to further simplify disclosures to
ensure SMEs are able to independently disclose BM datapoints without needing external ESG
experts. Additionally, there is a request by preparers to avoid using external references to EMAS,
international legislation/ standards and EU law as SMEs are no familiar with these technicalities.
There was a general request by some preparers to delete B11 given its complexity. One preparer
requested to delete B12. For B2 there were specific requests to add datapoint relevant for
cooperative enterprises specific requests. With regard to specific disclosures, specific changes
were requested for disclosures B3, B9, B10; these are available in the agenda paper 05-05 –
Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). The user (rating agency)
suggested to provide an overview of the disclosures in VSME reported “if applicable”. To facilitate
SMEs. In addition, the user analysed the disclosures that it is already covering through its own
rating questionnaires. The disclosures that are partially or not currently covered in this
December 2024 Page 291 of 323
Annex 13: Executive Summary of Comment Letters Only VSME ED Public Consultation
questionnaire are: B4 (partially), B5, B6 (partially), B7 (partially), B8 (partially), B10 – B12
(partially). B3 and B9 are entirely covered. Standard setters asked to clarify the “if applicable”
approach to be better understood in the various disclosures. Additionally, they suggested to move
BP6 (BPM) into B7 (BM). For B11 Standard Setters suggested to add positive aspect as well. The
more specific suggestions provided for the other disclosures can be found in the agenda paper
05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). Accountants suggested
to delete B11. Additionally requests to align ESRS S1 definition to B8, B9, and B10, expanding
the VSME definition of own workforce. For other disclosures, accountants request for more
simplifications and examples on top of specific requests that can be found in the agenda paper
05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey). Academics expressed
no comments on the module. Authorities requested for simplified guidance for B3, B5 and B6.
Specific requests on disclosure can be found in the agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback from
comment letters (outside online Survey).
22. On the Narrative-PAT Module: Preparers: business associations preparers considered this
module as too sophisticated/ complex for micro and small SMEs; only medium sized SMEs were
considered to be capable of reporting this. Some preparers asked to remove this module from
VSME due to complexity. For N1 one preparer suggested specific changes for cooperatives. For
N4, phrasing suggestions were provided. For N5, there was a suggestion to omit governance-
based questions as SMEs generally, do not have governance bodies. Instead, descriptive/
qualitative questions should be asked. The User (rating agency) indicated that all disclosures are
partially covered by the rating agency’s questionnaire. Standard setters asked to clarify the “if
applicable’ approach. Accountants requested for the simplification of vocabulary. On N2 one
accountant asked to delete financial materiality (too complex for SMEs). Some accountants also
asked to move N4 – key stakeholder information to N2. Academics left no comments.
Authorities: an authority suggests transforming this module into a Y/N close-ended question
module. One authority supports the PAT but suggests some modifications as in agenda paper
05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey).
23. On the Business Partners Module: business associators preparers indicate relatively low
support as they consider it too difficult without external support. With regard to BP1, BP8, and
BP9 there is a suggestion to avoid referencing external sources. Data requests for BP1 – BP5
and BP7 – BP10 were perceived as not fit/ adapted for SMEs. Some respondents view BP3’s
scope 3 data point as too complex. Some suggest the need to provide an “EU GHG calculator”
for scope 3 approximations that SMEs can use. For BP4, BP8 and BP9 there is an emphasis in
omitting external references within the standard. On the user (rating agency) side, BP2, BP3, BP6
and BP9 are fully covered disclosures. BP4 and BP8 are partially covered. BP1, BP5, BP7, BP10
and BP11 are not covered; for the Narrative PAT Module, N1 to N5 are partially covered, one
difference is that their questionnaire includes predefined list of actions on sustainability matters
tailored for size/sector. Standard setters asked for generally specific changes visible in the
agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online Survey).
Accountants found BP7, 8, & 9 to be a significant preparatory cost for SMEs. Additionally,
accountants found BP10 and BP11 irrelevant; one suggested to delete BP10. The suggestion to
merge BP3 and BP4 into one disclosure was also brought forth. Other specific changes can be
consulted in the agenda paper 05-05 – Detailed feedback from comment letters (outside online
Survey). Authorities suggested to provide specific cross-referencing to all relevant EU
legislations (Pillar 3 ITS templates, SFDR datapoints, and EU Taxonomy Regulation KPIs) to
facilitate the access of information for all market participants. The importance of the datapoints of
this module was also underlined. SFP recommended to keep BP7, BP8 and BP9 within the
Business Partner Module as the DRs encompass the provisions outlined in Art.18 of the
Taxonomy Regulation which mandates undertakings to incorporate SMEs in their human rights
due diligence processes when engaging in business with them.
December 2024 Page 292 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED
Questionnaire
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
Questionnaire VSME Exposure Draft
EFRAG Public Consultation – January 2024
DISCLAIMER
This questionnaire supports the development of the Exposure Draft for a Voluntary Standard for non-listed
SMEs (‘VSME ED’). The purpose of this consultation is to collect feedback from a variety of stakeholders
on of its content.
The VSME ED is the result of EFRAG SRB and SR TEG discussions and includes inputs from EFRAG
Expert Working Group and the EFRAG VSME community as well as stakeholders outreach events. This
work benefits from the research conducted by the SME working group “Cluster 8” of the EFRAG Project
Task Force on European sustainability reporting standards. The following background documents are included
in the package (Annex 1 and 2 available here) to help respondents framing their responses:
• Annex 1: VSME ED
• Annex 2: Basis for conclusions for VSME ED illustrating the reasoning behind the content of the ED.
• Annex 3: Approach to Value Chain Cap in ESRS LSME ED and VSME ED (link)
Deadline for answer is 21 May 2024 (EoD)
SURVEY INTRODUCTION
Thank you for taking the time to complete this survey.
The purpose of this survey is to receive feedback from constituents on the VSME ED. The feedback will
be collated by EFRAG Secretariat and analysed by EFRAG SR TEG and SRB to finalise the VSME draft
for delivery to the European Commission (‘EC’).
Why VSME? EFRAG’s work on a voluntary standard for non-listed micro, small and medium undertakings
is outside the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD).
As specified in the EC Q&A accompanying the adoption of the Delegated Acts ESRS in July 2023, EFRAG
is developing a simpler, voluntary standard for use by non-listed SMEs to enable non-listed SMEs to
respond to requests for sustainability information in an efficient and proportionate manner as well as to
facilitate their participation in the transition to a sustainable economy. The EC SME Relief Package of
September 2023 refers to the VSME ED as a measure to support SMEs in accessing sustainable finance
VSME ED will allow non listed SMEs (including micro) to face growing requests for ESG data and to lower
the entry barrier to reporting. In addition, undertakings with no company statute (self-employed) are
expected to use this VSME. The benefits of VSME will depend on market acceptance and recognition that
the VSME ED is suitable to replace a substantial part of the various questionnaires (from lenders,
corporates, investors) currently used to collect such information from SMEs.
Micro, small and medium undertakings are in number the vast majority of enterprises in Europe.
General approach to users’ needs: When answering to the questions in this Survey and assessing the
appropriateness of the proposed disclosures, respondents are invited to consider the perspective of the
users’ needs of this particular ED (users being primarily SMEs’ business partners, i.e. lenders, other
investors, corporates) and to take into account the capacities of the SMEs, especially as they are not in
the scope of the CSRD. Such information is also expected to support the perspective of public interest.
In this questionnaire, if not differently specified, the terms “SMEs” and “undertaking(s)” refers to non-listed
micro, small and medium undertakings in the scope of VSME ED.
If you have no opinion on a question you can skip the question.
December 2024 Page 293 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
INFORMATION ON SURVEY PARTICIPANT
First Name:
Last Name:
Name and Type of organization (Preparer, User, Other): _____________________
Preparers are identified as those which choose to prepare a sustainability report under the VSME ED.
Users are identified as those using the sustainability information produced by applying VSME ED (in
particular those are investors, lenders, large undertakings as SME’s value chain partners).m
• If preparer:
o does your undertaking have a company statute? Yes/No.
o are you subject to requirements to publish annual accounts? Yes/No.
• If preparer, please specify whether you are a:
o Micro undertaking (below 10 employees)
o Small undertaking (between 10 and 50 employees)
o Medium undertaking (between 50 and 250 employees)
o Small practitioner accountant (SMP) working with small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs)
o Business / Sector, international/ European or national organizations (as proxy for SMEs)
▪ Specify which sector.
• If user, please specify whether you are:
o User of sustainability reporting information (e.g. bank or investor)
o Large undertaking as SME’s business partner
o Rating Agency (as proxy for user)
o Public authority in processing sustainability information for tenders
o Business / Sector, international/ European or national organizations (as proxy for SMEs)
▪ Specify which sector.
o Small and medium sized enterprise (SME) as SME’s business partner
• Other:
o National or European authority/Standard Setter
o Non-Government Organization (“NGO”)
o Unions/Worker representatives
o Academic or research institution
o Accountant/Consulting services/Assurance provider
o Other (please specify)
“Other” respondents can choose to respond either as Preparers (proxy) or as Users (proxy). In
this case, in addition they can provide complementary comments to cover the other
perspective, using the last open question in Part 2 of the questionnaire.
Main country of operations (choose from menu)
Main sector of operations (choose from menu)
Depending on the group you have selected, you will be asked different questions.
SURVEY STRUCTURE
This survey is structured as follows:
December 2024 Page 294 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
A) Part 1: VSME ED – General key questions (CRITICAL, please consider answering all questions)
(If you only wish to complete Part 3, please page through the questionnaire to there).
B) Part 2: VSME ED – Detailed questions on principles and datapoints in the 3 modules (ADDITIONAL,
please complement your answers in part 1 by answering part 2 as much as possible) (If you do not
wish to complete this part, please page through to Part 3 on the Value chain cap or the submission page
as relevant).
C) Part 3: Value chain cap (Separate section on the role of VSME and LSME in respect to the trickle-
down effect) value chain cap as determined by the ESRS LSME) (Please note that here you are requested
to choose whether you want to respond in brief on this topic or in a more detail. Please note that the
questions on the value chain cap here are the same as in the LSME questionnaire in part A2 and if you
respond to both questionnaires, you do not need to repeat your answers.)
You can choose to answer any part on its own or combination with the other parts.
Survey instructions
Some questions in the survey will appear depending on your previous answers or choices. You will now
be able to save your responses before final submission. Please note that EFRAG only considers
completed surveys - partial submissions cannot be technically processed. You will receive an
email with your response on submission.
QUESTIONS
PART 1: General Key Questions (CRITICAL)
Objective, simplifications and modules
Please refer to the text of VSME ED in Annex 1 and to the text of Basis for conclusions for VSME
ED in Annex 2.
Q1. The objective of this ED is to provide a simple reporting tool, that can credibly replace a substantial
part of the questionnaires used by business partners (lenders, investors and corporate clients) in
requesting ESG data from SMEs and that can support SMEs in monitoring their sustainability
performance. While the ED has been built mainly on the basis of questionnaires from business partners,
the resulting information is expected to also benefit SMEs by improving their management of sustainability
issues and, in this way, contribute to a more sustainable and inclusive economy.
Do you agree with this standard setting objective?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q2. VSME ED has been structured in three separate modules:
The Basic Module is the entry level for SMEs and the target for micro-SME; it is required also in case of
use of one of the two other modules.
The Narrative-Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) Module is expected to be used by SMEs that have
already in place some formalised policies, actions and targets.
The Business Partners (BP) Module is expected to be used when an SME faces data requests from its
business counterparties.
The following alternatives for reporting uses are possible under the VSME ED:
1) The Basic Module alone;
2) The Basic Module with the Narrative-PAT Module;
3) The Basic Module with the Business Partners (BP) Module;
December 2024 Page 295 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
4) All three Modules together.
Do you agree that these alternatives are appropriate to deal with the diversified undertakings in scope
(both number of employees and economic sectors) in the context of the objective as stated in Q1 of this
questionnaire?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q3. The Basic Module is written in simplified language to make it easily understandable for micro and
SME undertakings, while ensuring clarity in terms defined by the ESRS with 12 disclosures to be reported.
There is no need for a materiality analysis. Certain disclosures are required only if the undertaking
considers them "applicable".
Do you agree that the Basic Module is proportionate, understandable (in terms of language), and has a
reasonably complete set of disclosures to be used as a starting point?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
If answer is NO, please indicate the relevant disclosure.
Q4. The Narrative-Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) Module is suggested in addition to disclosures in
the Basic Module, to undertakings that have formalised and implemented PAT. Materiality analysis is
required to determine and disclose the sustainability matters that are relevant for the undertaking.
Do you agree with the content and approach of the Narrative-PAT Module, which is reserved to
undertakings that have Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) in place?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q5. The Business Partners (BP) Module sets datapoints to be reported in addition to disclosures in the
Basic Module, which are likely to be included in data requests from lenders, investors and corporate clients
of the undertaking. Materiality analysis is required, in order to determine and disclose the sustainability
matters that are relevant for the undertaking.
Do you agree with the content and approach to the Business Partners (BP) Module, as a replacement
and standardisation of information requests by business partners, being a proportionate but complete set
of ESG disclosures?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q6. FOR USERS and PREPARERS ONLY: Kindly indicate the proportion of ESG questionnaires or other
ESG information requests that are used to collect data from SMEs (both for reporting and managerial
purposes) that could be replaced if the SMEs provide the information covered by the three modules of the
VSME ED.
- Below 20%; 20-50%; 50% -80%; above 80%
- Please explain what items are missing and your rationale.
Sector guidance
Q7. Sustainability matters may be highly dependent on the specificities of the relevant sector(s) that the
reporting undertaking operates in. Please select your recommended course of action for standard setting
and guidance purposes on this matter.
[PLEASE SELECT ONE]
1. Undertakings applying VSME ED should apply on a voluntary basis existing reporting
practices, without specific EFRAG guidance.
2. Undertakings applying VSME ED should apply on a voluntary basis the content of the future
Sector ESRS for large undertakings.
3. Undertakings applying VSME ED should apply on a voluntary basis sector specific guidelines
and disclosures designed for non-listed SMEs, to be issued by EFRAG as a non-authoritative
annex to the future sector-ESRS.
December 2024 Page 296 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
4. Undertakings applying VSME ED should apply on a voluntary basis sector specific guidelines
and disclosures applicable to both listed and non-listed SMEs, to be issued by EFRAG as a non-
authoritative annex to the future sector-ESRS.
Please note that your answer will be complemented by question 13 on the additional dimension of
reporting including sectors.
Please provide your comments, if any.
December 2024 Page 297 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
PART 2: Detailed questions on principles and datapoints (ADDITIONAL, to
complement part 1)
a. Principles for preparation
Please refer to the text of VSME ED in Annex 1.
Q8. Do you agree with the proposed Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report in VSME
ED?
Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report (Basic Module, Narrative-PAT Module,
Business Partners Module)
Agree Disagree Comment
a) Complying with this Standard (paragraphs 9 and 10 in VSME
ED)
b) Preparation on a consolidated basis (paragraph 12 in VSME
ED)
c) Timing and location of the Sustainability Report (paragraphs
13, 14 and 15 in VSME ED)
d) Classified and sensitive information, and information on
intellectual property, know-how or results of innovation
(paragraph 16 in VSME ED)
[PER EACH ‘DISAGREE’: please explain your reasoning]
Q9. Additional question on Complying with this Standard. Undertakings should indicate which
modules or which combination of modules they expect to use. This question aims at better understanding
the market acceptance as a fundamental aspect of the standard on the two different sides of users and
preparers (please refer to BC5 in Annex 2 Basis for conclusions for VSME ED). In this context, how do
you anticipate to make use of the modular approach:
[MULTIPLE SELECTION POSSIBLE]
IF PREPARER: Basic Basic Module Basic Module All 3 Modules Rationale for
Module your answer
+ +
Narrative Business
Module Partners
Modu le
Specify which
approach(es) you
would consider
when applying
VSME ED
[MULTIPLE SELECTION ALLOWED]
December 2024 Page 298 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
IF USER: Basic Basic Basic Module All 3 Modules Rationale for
Module Module your answer
+
+
Business Partners Module
Narrative
Module
Specify which
approach(es) you
deem most
appropriate to cover
the information needs
you require
Q10. Additional question on Preparation on a consolidated basis. The VSME ED recommends the
undertakings that are parent of small and medium sized groups to prepare consolidated reports for their
sustainability statement, i.e. to include data of their subsidiary/ies in the report. Do you agree with this
approach?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q11. Since non listed SMEs are outside the scope of CSRD, the subsidiary exemption (see CSRD Art.
19a9) does not apply to them. One proposal that EFRAG could consider is to include such exemption in
VSME ED, as a further incentive to apply consolidated sustainability reporting. Would you consider the
inclusion of a subsidiary exemption to VSME ED as pertinent and feasible?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q12. Additional information component including sectors (VSME ED par. 11, applicable to all the
modules)
Depending on the type of activities carried out, the inclusion of additional information about issues that
are common to the undertaking’s sector supports the provision of relevant, faithful, comparable,
understandable and verifiable information. While acknowledging the difficulties that this requirement may
raise for SMEs, the inclusion of this additional dimension was considered an important element of VSME
ED to fulfil in particular-sector specific disclosures. Do you agree with this approach?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
b. Basic Module
Q13. The Basic Module is the entry level for non-listed SMEs and has a highly simplified language. Ideally
the undertaking should be able to produce these disclosures with limited help of consultants. It comprises
12 disclosures which have been mapped with existing voluntary initiatives (i.e. Nordic Sustainability
reporting standards for SMEs, German Sustainability Code, CDP guide for SMEs etc.). These disclosures
have been identified as recurring in the questionnaires analysed by the EFRAG Secretariat (please refer
to Annex 2 Basis for conclusions for VSME ED for more details).
With reference to the proposed disclosure requirements, please include your answer in the table below:
December 2024 Page 299 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
VSME ED IF PREPARER: IF USER: IF OTHER
RESPONDENT: Do
Feasible / Difficult to prepare This disclosure is
you have comments
/Already disclosed under other essential/Not
on the inclusion and
reporting schemes or regulations necessary
content of this
(i.e. EMAS)
disclosure?
Optional
If answer is Difficult to prepare: Comments.
Please explain the challenge and
what would help you to prepare
this disclosure.
Optional Comments.
Disclosure B 1 –
Basis for Preparation
Disclosure B 2 –
Practices for
transitioning towards
a more sustainable
economy
B 3 – Energy and
greenhouse gas
emissions
B 4 – Pollution of air,
water and soil
B 5 – Biodiversity
B 6 – Water
B 7 – Resource use,
circular economy,
and waste
management
B 8 – Workforce –
General
characteristics
B 9 – Workforce -
Health and Safety
December 2024 Page 300 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
VSME ED IF PREPARER: IF USER: IF OTHER
RESPONDENT: Do
Feasible / Difficult to prepare This disclosure is
you have comments
/Already disclosed under other essential/Not
on the inclusion and
reporting schemes or regulations necessary
content of this
(i.e. EMAS)
disclosure?
Optional
If answer is Difficult to prepare: Comments.
Please explain the challenge and
what would help you to prepare
this disclosure.
Optional Comments.
B 10 – Workforce –
Remuneration,
collective bargaining,
and training
B 1123 – Workers in
the value chain,
affected
communities,
consumers and end-
users
B 12 – Convictions
and fines for
corruption and
bribery
Q14. FOR USERS ONLY: Is there any datapoint(s) missing from this module that you consider as
essential to meet your information needs?
Yes/No.
If Yes, please specify the datapoint(s) and provide a rationale for your answer.
Q15. B3 to B7 require disclosure of environmental performance metrics. There are other schemes used
by SMEs requiring reporting of similar metrics, such as the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
(EMAS – Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009). Do you see any potential for better alignment with those other
reporting schemes?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
23 This datapoint was not identified in any of the questionnaires analysed by EFRAG Secretariat but was inserted to
keep consensus based on the recommendation by some EFRAG SRB members.
December 2024 Page 301 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
Q16. The guidance provided for B9 on the number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and
work-related ill health refers to incidents arising during travel and, outside of the undertaking’s
responsibility (e.g. regular commuting to and from work). These incidents are subject to the applicable
national legislation that regulates their categorisation as to whether these are work-related or not. Is the
practice in your country to include such incidents as work-related fatalities?
Yes/No/ Please explain your answer including references to the relevant legislation.
Q17. B10 (a) requires undertakings to disclose the relevant ratio of the entry level wage to the minimum
wage, when a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject to minimum
wage rules. This datapoint deviates from the disclosure requirement on adequate wages established in
ESRS S1-10 – Adequate wages (from paragraphs 67 to 71) as a simplification (i.e., easier to collect). Do
you consider that this requirement will provide relevant and comparable information?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q18. B11 was drafted to cover, in a simplified way, a description of the process to identify material impacts
and a description of those for workers in the value chain, affected communities and consumers/end-users.
This disclosure is an exception to the general approach in the Basic Module where materiality does not
apply. As a compromise, it was included as a voluntary disclosure. Do you agree with this approach?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q19. In order to help SMEs prepare the sustainability report, specific guidance has been developed for
the Basic Module in paragraphs 87 to 167 of VSME ED. Do you think that it is useful for the preparation
of the report? Do you think it is sufficient?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer or add suggestions.
c. Approach to materiality of matters and Principles for preparation (common to
Narrative-PAT and Business Partners Modules)
Q20. Do you think that the language and approach to the Principles of Materiality to be applied to the
Narrative-PAT Module and Business Partners (BP) Module are proportionate for the undertakings in
scope? Please include your feedback in the table below:
VSME ED Agree/ Comment
Disagree
Impact materiality (paragraphs 46-50 in VSME ED)
Financial materiality (paragraphs 51-55 in VSME ED)
Stakeholders and their relevance to the materiality
analysis process (paragraphs 56 and 57 in VSME ED)
Q21. The VSME ED requires to perform materiality analysis in order to disclose which of the sustainability
matters listed in Annex B of VSME ED (which is the same as AR 16 of ESRS 1 General requirements)
are material to the undertaking. Therefore, users will understand for which material matters the
undertaking does not have Policies Actions and Targets (PAT) in place. This approach (like for ESRS Set
1) is designed to have a reliable depiction of what the undertaking is doing to address sustainability
matters, avoiding greenwashing. At the same time, this approach only requires reporting the PAT (Policies,
December 2024 Page 302 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
Actions and Targets) that the undertaking has in place. No information is required when they have no PAT
in place for a material matter (in addition to the list of material matters itself).
In the VSME ED, the Narrative-PAT and Business Partners Modules require assessing the materiality of
the matters, as it considers the disclosure of only material matters as essential information for users. Do
you agree with this approach?
a) For all respondents: Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
b) For users only: Is the list of material matters essential for you? Yes/No/Please explain
your answer.
Q22. As a way to simplify the materiality approach, whenever possible the notion of “report only if
applicable” has been introduced. This filters information to be reported by undertakings on the basis of
relevance. No disclosure is expected for a specific datapoint, when the undertaking’s circumstances are
different from those that would trigger disclosure of that specific datapoint, as described by the relevant
provision in VSME ED. This is particularly important for the Basic Module, where no materiality analysis
is foreseen and all the disclosures are to be reported, if applicable. Disclosures in the Business Partners
module are to be reported are to be reported if they are applicable and for BP 5,7, 8, 9, 10 (for which the
"if applicable" approach would not work) if they are relevant to the undertaking's business and
organisation.
Do you agree with this approach?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q23. Financial opportunities have been included only on an optional basis in VSME ED since the CSRD
focused on negative impact when addressing SMEs. Do you agree?
a) Yes, reporting for financial opportunities should be optional
b) No, reporting for financial opportunities is not needed for non-listed SMEs (focus
on negative impacts only).
Please explain your answer.
Q24. Do you agree with the proposed principles for the preparation of the sustainability report for the
Narrative-PAT and Business Partners Module in VSME ED? Please include your feedback in the table
below:
Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report (Narrative-PAT Module, Business
Partners Module)
Agree Disagree Comment
a) Time horizons (paragraph 40 in VSME ED)
b) Coherence and linkages with disclosures in financial
statements ((paragraph 41 in VSME ED)
[PER EACH ‘DISAGREE’: please explain your reasoning]
Please add your comments, if any.
d. Narrative-Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT) Module
December 2024 Page 303 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
Q25. Do you agree with the content of the disclosures required by the Narrative-PAT Module of VSME
ED? Please refer to Annex 2 Basis for conclusions for VSME ED for further detail. Please include your
feedback in the table below:
VSME ED USER = This disclosure is OTHER RESPONDENTS: Do
essential/Not necessary you have comments on this
disclosure?
PREPARER= Feasible/ Difficult
to prepare/ Already disclosed
under other reporting schemes
or regulations
Disclosure N 1 – Strategy:
business model and
sustainability related initiatives
Disclosure N 2 – Material
sustainability matters
Disclosure N 3 – Management of
material sustainability matters
Disclosure N 4 – Key
stakeholders
Disclosure N 5 – Governance:
responsibilities in relation to
sustainability matters
Q26. FOR PREPARERS ONLY: If you anticipate that you will apply the Narrative-PAT module, have you
implemented policies, actions and targets (PAT) and/or climate transition plans due to requests of
counterparties in the value chain?
Yes /No/Please explain.
Q27. FOR USERS ONLY: Are there any datapoint(s) missing from this module that you consider as
essential to meet your information needs?
Yes/No/Please specify the datapoint(s) and provide a rationale for your answer.
Q28. N3 requires the disclosure of policies, actions and targets to manage material sustainability matters.
There are other schemes used by SMEs requiring reporting of similar information, such as the European
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS – Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009) regarding environmental
policies, actions and targets. Do you see any potential for better alignment with those other reporting
schemes?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
e. Business Partners (BP) Module
Q29. While acknowledging the complexities of this calculation specifically for SMEs, the inclusion of
greenhouse gas (GHG) Scope 3 emissions as the entity-specific dimension was considered an important
December 2024 Page 304 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
element of disclosure in some sectors. The Business Partners Module includes an entity specific
consideration for GHG Scope 3 emissions to guide undertakings in certain sectors and for which Scope 3
GHG emissions are material in addition to the disclosures envisaged in B3 Energy and GHG emissions
(Basic Module). Do you agree with the inclusion of GHG Scope 3 emissions in the Business Partner
Module in the paragraph “Entity specific consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3
(Basic Module)”?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
FOR PREPARERS ONLY: Is this disclosure feasible? Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q30. Do you agree with the content of disclosures required by the Business Partners (BP) Module of
VSME ED? Please note that you can find the background for each Disclosure in the Annex 2 Basis for
conclusions for VSME ED (BC130. to BC149). Please include your feedback in the table below:
VSME ED IF PREPARER: IF USER: IF USER: If IF USER: If Comment
Feasible/Difficult present in present in
This (FOR ALL
to prepare/ questionnaires, questionnaires,
disclosure is CATEGORIES OF
Already specify to which is this asked only
essential/Not RESPONDENTS)
prepared for category of for certain
Necessary
other purposes SME (micro, sectors? If yes,
small, medium) which ones?
the question is
asked
Disclosure
BP 1 –
Revenues
from certain
sectors
Disclosure
BP 2 –
Gender
diversity ratio
in
governance
body
Disclosure
BP 3 – GHG
emissions
reduction
target
Disclosure
BP 4 –
Transition
plan for
climate
change
mitigation
Disclosure
BP 5 –
Physical
Risks from
December 2024 Page 305 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
VSME ED IF PREPARER: IF USER: IF USER: If IF USER: If Comment
Feasible/Difficult present in present in
This (FOR ALL
to prepare/ questionnaires, questionnaires,
disclosure is CATEGORIES OF
Already specify to which is this asked only
essential/Not RESPONDENTS)
prepared for category of for certain
Necessary
other purposes SME (micro, sectors? If yes,
small, medium) which ones?
the question is
asked
climate
change
Disclosure
BP 6 –
Hazardous
waste and/or
radioactive
waste ratio
Disclosure
BP 7 –
Alignment
with
internationally
recognized
instruments
Disclosure
BP 8 –
Processes to
monitor
compliance
and
mechanisms
to address
violations
Disclosure
BP 9 –
Violations of
OECD
Guidelines for
Multinational
Enterprises or
the UN
Guiding
Principles
(including the
principles and
rights set out
in the 8
fundamental
conventions
of the ILO
December 2024 Page 306 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
VSME ED IF PREPARER: IF USER: IF USER: If IF USER: If Comment
Feasible/Difficult present in present in
This (FOR ALL
to prepare/ questionnaires, questionnaires,
disclosure is CATEGORIES OF
Already specify to which is this asked only
essential/Not RESPONDENTS)
prepared for category of for certain
Necessary
other purposes SME (micro, sectors? If yes,
small, medium) which ones?
the question is
asked
Declaration
and the
International
Bill of Human
Rights)
Disclosure
BP 10 –
Work-life
balance
Disclosure
BP 11 –
Number of
apprentices
Q31. FOR USERS ONLY: Disclosures in this module are reported if applicable, with the exception of BP
5, 7, 8, 9, 10 that are omitted when considered not material. Do you agree with this approach?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q32. With reference to disclosures BP 7, BP 8 and BP 9, the objective of these three disclosures is to
assess the SME's commitment to respecting human rights. The ED has used the terms in the Sustainable
Finance Disclosures Regulation (SFDR), applicable to the financial market participants (for example
banks), for consistency purposes. Are there alternative disclosures covering the same objective regarding
the human rights of own workforce and that are more suitable than these disclosures?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer including updated/proposed text.
Q33. Do you think that it would be beneficial to split the Business Partners (BP) Module into sub-modules
depending on the nature of the user (for example “banks”, “investors”, “large corporates”)?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q34. Some of the questionnaires of banks and other business partners analysed by EFRAG Secretariat
included also datapoints related to the EU-taxonomy regulation, despite non-listed SMEs being out of
scope. EFRAG considered that preparing this information would be too complex for non-listed SMEs. We
note that the EU Platform for Sustainable Finance may in the future make a proportionate tool for EU-
taxonomy available. In particular, to meet the technical criteria for inclusion in the climate mitigation
taxonomy, large undertakings have to consider the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of their various
economic activities. These undertakings will need data from their suppliers. Small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs) playing a crucial role in these undertakings’ supply chains may be asked to provide
the following information voluntarily to streamline the process for themselves and their clients:
• SMEs whose activities fall under enabling activities of the Climate Delegated Act, e.g., categories
3.6 (Manufacture of renewable energy technologies) or 9.1 (Market research, development and
innovation), should disclose the emission savings of their technology compared to the best-
performing alternative.
December 2024 Page 307 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
Do you think that VSME ED should include this additional datapoint to cover EU-Taxonomy
disclosures?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q35. In order to help SMEs prepare their sustainability report, specific guidance has been developed for
the Business Partners Module in paragraphs 169 to 193 of VSME ED. Do you think that it is useful in the
preparation of the sustainability report? Do you think it is sufficient?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q36. FOR USERS ONLY: Are there any datapoint(s) missing from this module that you consider as
essential to meet your information needs?
Yes/No/Please specify the datapoint(s) and provide a rationale for your answer.
Q37. FOR USERS ONLY: Appendix C of VSME ED reflects the SFDR, Benchmark, Pillar 3 datapoints in
VSME ED. This is to support particularly banks and investor to compare the data between SMEs and
larger clients and to allow for aggregation. Is Appendix C clear?
Yes/No/Please explain your answer.
Q38. FOR USERS ONLY: Do you think that the ability of VSME ED to replace the existing ESG
questionnaires or other ESG information requests can be further increased, if some datapoints were added
to VSME ED?
Yes/No.
IF YES: please explain your answer.
IF NO: Why do you think that the ability of VSME ED to replace the questionnaires cannot be increased?
[select one or more]
- Sector-specific data is not suitable for a sector-agnostic VSME ED
- Data demands that are specific to your relationship with the SME and cannot be standardized
o In this case: please explain your reasoning.
- Other reasons
o In this case: please explain.
Q39. Please provide any further comments not addressed in part 1 or 2 of the questionnaire here:
[Comment box]
Q40. If you want to provide additional comments in a document on aspects not covered in the
questionnaire, please upload your file here.
[Browse document]
PART 3: Value chain cap (Separate section on the value chain cap as determined
by the ESRS LSME)
Non-listed SMEs receive data requests from large undertakings, including due to reporting obligations in
the CSRD.
Jointly with the consultation on VSME ED to the consultation on this voluntary standard for non-listed
SMEs, EFRAG is also consulting on the content of ESRS for listed SMEs (ESRS LSME ED). While ESRS
cannot result in large undertakings having to request disclosures that are not included in ESRS LSME ED
(which sets the value chain cap from a legal perspective), the VSME ED is intended to play a key role in
December 2024 Page 308 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
supporting SMEs, when they prepare the information needed by large undertakings for ESRS reporting,
as well as for other obligations including for business purposes. Therefore, VSME ED includes simplified
disclosures that generally correspond to the reasonable expectations of ESRS Set 1 preparers (i.e. large
undertakings that prepare their sustainability statement under ESRS). As a consequence, non-listed SMEs
that apply VSME ED will in general be able to meet the data requests defined for value chain in ESRS
LSME ED, except for very specific cases. These cases correspond to disclosures which are included in
ESRS LSME ED (therefore SMEs may receive data requests from large undertakings relating to these
disclosures, either due to their ESRS reporting obligations or for other obligations and business purposes),
but are not included in the VSME ED, due to their excessive complexity for non-listed SMEs in general.
They are principally of a sectorial nature (GHG Removals, substances of concern/high concern, resource
inflows), mainly needed for management or specific arrangement purposes. More information is provided
on these disclosures in Annex 3 [link].
Please note that the questions on the value chain cap here are the same as in the LSME questionnaire in
part A2 and if you respond to both questionnaires, you do not need to repeat your answers.
Q41. Do you agree with the approach taken by EFRAG on the Value Chain Cap?
Yes/No.
If Yes: Please explain your answer.
IF No: Are you willing to provide detailed feedback based on Annex 3?
• If No: please explain your answer in brief.
• If Yes: Select the areas of disclosure (from the table below) for which you disagree with EFRAG
conclusion (For further details please refer to Annex 3 [link])
AREA OF DISCLOSURE DISAGREE IF DISAGREE: EXPLAIN
[ALLOW MULTIPLE WHY REFERRING
SELECTION] SPECIFICALLY TO
CONTENT OF ANNEX 3
1. SBM-1,SBM-3, IRO-1: for both LSME
and VSME EDs the conclusion is that
no undue effect expected from ESRS
reporting
2. Policies, Actions and Targets (PAT):
for both LSME and VSME EDs the
conclusion is that no undue effect
expected from ESRS reporting
3. Climate Transition plan (Section 3
Actions – AR 6 and AR11): for both
LSME and VSME EDs the conclusion
is that no undue effect expected from
ESRS reporting
4. GHG emissions (E1-2 GHG
emissions – Scope 3): for both LSME
and VSME EDs the conclusion is that
no undue effect expected from ESRS
reporting
5. GHG removal (E1-3 GHG removals):
No undue effect on LSMEs expected
from ESRS reporting. Additional
information (not for ESRS reporting
but for the implementation of possible
specific arrangements) may be
needed beyond VSME but is too
specific to be covered by VSME ED.
6. Substances of concern and
substances of very high concern (E2-
2 Substances of concern and
substances of very high concern): No
undue effect on LSMEs expected
December 2024 Page 309 of 323
Annex 14: Public Consultation - VSME ED Questionnaire
AREA OF DISCLOSURE DISAGREE IF DISAGREE: EXPLAIN
[ALLOW MULTIPLE WHY REFERRING
SELECTION] SPECIFICALLY TO
CONTENT OF ANNEX 3
from ESRS reporting. Additional
information (not for ESRS reporting
but for the implementation of
possible specific arrangements) may
be needed beyond VSME but is too
specific to be covered by VSME ED.
7. Resource inflows (E5-1 Resource
inflows): for both LSME and VSME
EDs the conclusion is that no undue
effect expected from ESRS reporting
8. Entity specific disclosures: For both
EDs: Perspective 1: Possible trickle-
down effect under specific
arrangements to allow Set 1
preparers to cover material sector
and/or to disclose entity-specific
information including value chain.
Perspective 2: not applicable, as the
datapoint cannot be defined (due to
entity-specific nature of the
disclosure).
Q42. Do you have any other comment on value chain?
December 2024 Page 310 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test
Questionnaire
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
VSME ED - EFRAG Field Test
Purpose and content of the field test
EFRAG is consulting on its Exposure Draft for a voluntary sustainability reporting standard for non-listed
SMEs (including micro undertakings) (VSME ED). A questionnaire has been prepared to support the
collection of public feedback in the consultation and can be found [here].
This field test is conducted in parallel with the public consultation and intends to complement the
outcome of the consultation, with additional fact-based evidence. The purpose is to gather facts and
evidence on the challenges and benefits of the content of the ED, from stakeholders that will prepare
actual disclosures applying VSME ED. From the preparers’ perspective, the participation to the field
test may take two forms: Actual preparation of (or part of) the disclosures in VSME ED, respond to the
Field Test Questionnaire and participation to workshops and/or interviews with EFRAG Secretariat; or
(a) Preparation (such as assessment of the challenges and benefits deriving from the
disclosures in VSME, supported by the Field Test Questionnaire) and participation to
workshops and/or interviews with EFRAG Secretariat.
While the second approach is less strenuous, EFRAG encourages preparers to follow the first approach
as far as possible as it will provide significantly more useful information.
From the users’ perspective, the participation to the field test require preparation and participation to
workshops and/or interviews with EFRAG Secretariat.
The Field Test focuses on the following key elements:
(a) The costs and challenges associated with each of the disclosures;
(b) The understandability of the guidance provided in the ED and its ability to support the
implementation of the disclosure requirements; and
(c) The expected benefits of the disclosures.
Practical considerations
A preparer may elect to test one or more of the following modules:
- Basic Module
- Narrative-PAT Module
- Business Partners Module.
The application of the General Principles for the preparation of the sustainability report is considered as part of
each module.
A prerequisite to participation in the field test is the completion of the consultation questionnaire as well as
the field test questionnaire. This means that all the questions in the consultation questionnaire related to the
selected module(s) need to be answered and may be further discussed in the workshops/interviews.
December 2024 Page 311 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
Mocked- up sections of sustainability statement would be very welcome but are not required (approach a) versus
b) on the previous page).
All information provided will be treated confidentially and it may be shared with the consultant assisting with the
Cost Benefit Analysis. The results of the Field Test will be published on an anonymised basis.
After analysis of the responses, the results will be discussed at workshops jointly with other preparers and users
that participate to the field test discussion to validate the outcomes from the field test, as well as to ensure a full
understanding of responses. The workshops are planned for the first half of May 2024. The results from the test
will then be presented to the EFRAG SRB and EFRAG SR TEG and considered as part of the consultation material.
EFRAG is looking for participants that allow for a balanced coverage of:
• countries in the European Economic Area, sectors, size;
• preparers with experience in voluntary reporting sustainability matters and/or communicating through
sustainability related questionnaires with counterparties information related to sustainability matters;
• from the users’ side: Business partners and other counterparties (including lenders, investors) of non-
listed SMEs.
For further information, please contact VSME@efrag.org.
Please complete the selected modules for this questionnaire and the corresponding questions in the consultation
questionnaire by 21 April 2024.
Please note that answers will be considered only if you press the Submit button. After completing the
questionnaire, you will receive a confirmation email.
Field Test Questionnaire
1) Please indicate whether you want to be contacted for any follow-up questions*:
( ) Yes, I want to be contacted.
( ) No, I do not want to be contacted.
2) Please indicate which module(s) you will respond to in this questionnaire*:
( ) Basic Module (if applied in part, please specify)
( ) Basic and PAT Module (if applied in part, please specify)
( ) Basic and Business Partners Module (if applied in part, please specify)
( ) All three
EFRAG encourages to provide input on all the disclosures in a module once chosen, as this is more useful for the
analysis.
3) Please indicate if for the purposes of this field test you prepared the disclosures in the selected module(s)*
( ) YES – we will provide our feedback based on the preparation of the disclosures in the selected modules (delivery
of the actual disclosures/mock-up of it is optional)
( ) NO – we will not prepare the disclosures in the selected modules, but we will run preparatory analysis and
report during the workshop/interview.
* Denotes that the information has to be provided.
December 2024 Page 312 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test
Questionnaire
Part 1 – Preparation of Basic Module
1) IF PREPARER: When considering the disclosures covered by the Basic Module of VSME ED, please
indicate which of the following operational challenges would be relevant in your opinion, if applicable
(the items are not mutually exclusive so you can select more than one item):
( ) Availability of data with appropriate quality
( ) Availability of IT or supporting tool
( ) Availability of skills and resources
( ) Complexity in language
( ) Complexity in requirements
( ) Others (specify)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific metrics and
datapoints)
2)
IF PREPARER. With reference to Low Medium High
Metric B 3 to B12 of Basic Module,
please state per each disclosure the
level of difficulty encountered and
why.
3) IF PREPARER: With reference to the Basic Module, please state the estimated total cost (in euros) to
prepare it, with a breakdown as follows:
a. HR/Personnel costs
b. Consultancy costs
c. IT costs (e.g. software, online platforms)
d. Other (specify)
Please distinguish your estimates between first year of preparation and recurring costs.
4)
December 2024 Page 313 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
IF USER. With reference to Metric B 3 Low Medium High
to B12 of Basic Module, please state
the level of relevance and related
benefit for information need and why
5) With reference to Metric B 3 to B12 of Basic Module, estimate the benefits in quantitative and/or
qualitative terms that the application of this Module would imply with the following breakdown:
a. synergies with other questionnaires (simplification and cost savings) (Value/Text)
b. increased access to finance (Value/Text)
c. access to more clients and better market positioning/competitiveness (Value/Text)
d. awareness and monitoring of sustainability issues (Value/Text)
e. other, please explain your answer. (Value/Text)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific metrics and
datapoints)
Part 2 – Principles of Materiality applicable in Narrative-PAT and Business Partners (BP) Module
1) IF PREPARER: These modules require performing a double materiality analysis (i.e. both financial and
impact) in order to identify and disclose the list of sustainability matters that are relevant to the
undertaking (i.e. those that expose the company to impacts on people/environment and/or to
financial risks). In this context, does impact and financial materiality assessment, stakeholders’
identification and engagement support the identification of the relevant matters at a reasonable
cost/benefit balance? What specific challenges did you encounter? Please explain.
Part 3 – Preparation of Narrative-PAT Module
1) IF PREPARER: When considering the disclosures covered by the Narrative-PAT Module of VSME ED,
please indicate which of the following operational challenges would be relevant in your opinion, if
applicable (the items are not mutually exclusive so you can select more than one item):
( ) Availability of data with appropriate quality
( ) Availability of IT or supporting tool
December 2024 Page 314 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
( ) Availability of skills and resources
( ) Complexity in language
( ) Complexity in requirements
( ) Others (specify)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific data points)
2)
IF PREPARER: With reference to Low Medium High
disclosures N 1 to N 5 of Narrative-
PAT Module, please state per each
disclosure the level of difficulty
encountered and why.
3) IF PREPARER: With reference to the Narrative-PAT Module, please state the estimated total cost (in
euros) to prepare it, with a breakdown as follows:
a. HR/Personnel costs
b. Consultancy costs
c. IT costs (e.g. software, online platforms)
d. Other (specify)
Please distinguish your estimates between first year of preparation and recurring costs.
4)
IF USER: With reference to disclosures Low Medium High
N 1 to N 5 of Narrative-PAT Module,
please state the level of relevance and
related benefit for information need
and why.
5) With reference to disclosures N 1 to N 5 of Narrative-PAT Module, estimate the benefits in quantitative
and/or qualitative terms that the application of this Module would imply with the following breakdown:
December 2024 Page 315 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
a. synergies with other questionnaires (simplification and cost savings) (Value/Text)
b. increased access to finance (Value/Text)
c. access to more clients and better market positioning/competitiveness (Value/Text)
d. awareness and monitoring of sustainability issues (Value/Text)
e. other, please explain your answer. (Value/Text)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific metrics and
datapoints)
Part 4 – Preparation of the Business Partners Module
1) IF PREPARER: When considering the disclosures covered by the Business Partners Module of VSME ED,
please indicate which of the following operational challenges would be relevant in your opinion, if
applicable (the items are not mutually exclusive so you can select more than one item):
( ) Availability of data with appropriate quality
( ) Availability of IT or supporting tool
( ) Availability of skills and resources
( ) Complexity in language
( ) Complexity in requirements
( ) Others (specify)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific metrics and
datapoints)
2)
IF PREPARER. With reference to Low Medium High
disclosures BP 1 to BP 11 of Business
Partners Module, please state per
each disclosure the level of difficulty
encountered and why.
3) IF PREPARER: With reference to the Business Partners Module, please state the estimated total cost (in
December 2024 Page 316 of 323
Annex 15: Public Consultation Field Test Questionnaire
euros) to prepare it, with a breakdown as follows:
a. HR/Personnel costs
b. Consultancy costs
c. IT costs (e.g. software, online platforms)
d. Other (specify)
Please distinguish your estimates between first year of preparation and recurring costs.
4)
IF USER. With reference to disclosures Low Medium High
BP 1 to BP 11 of Business Partners
Module, please state the level of
relevance and related benefit for
information need and why.
5) With reference to BP 1 to BP 11 of the Business Partners Module, estimate the benefits in quantitative
and/or qualitative terms that the application of this Module would imply with the following breakdown:
a. synergies with other questionnaires (simplification and cost savings) (Value/Text)
b. increased access to finance (Value/Text)
c. access to more clients and better market positioning/competitiveness (Value/Text)
d. awareness and monitoring of sustainability issues (Value/Text)
e. other, please explain your answer. (Value/Text)
Comments – (please also indicate if this is more pertinent to some disclosures or specific metrics and
datapoints)
Additional input
If you have any additional input you would like to provide (including mock up of disclosures) please upload
the relevant files.
[Attach file here]
December 2024 Page 317 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation
workshops with banking and SME associations
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshops with banking and SME
associations
This annex contains the summary of the workshops held with banking associations on 16 September
2024 and with SME associations on 23 September 2024.
Summary of the VSME Banking Post-Consultation Workshop 16 September
2024
General observations:
1. Support the proposed architecture from 3 banking associations. They find that the two
modules (Basic Module and Comprehensive Module) are the most important.
Feedback on Principles
Inclusion of subsidiaries in the reported data:
2. All banking associations support the inclusion of paragraph 13. Two national banking
associations suggest adding the following specification as a footnote: “If a subsidiary in the
perimeter of the consolidated report is a direct borrower of a bank, the bank may require on a
bilateral basis specific information from the subsidiary (i.e. under the VSME).”
Timing and location of sustainability report
3. All banking associations agree with the fact that SMEs have to report on an annual basis
mentioning that for those disclosure that did not change from the previous year, SMEs can
refer to the information provided for the previous year. In addition, one national banking
association suggests that it must be clear that in the case the report is not updated, it must`
be clear that information has not changed.
Classified and sensitive information and information on intellectual property, know-how or
results of innovation
4. Agreement to delete points a + b of paragraph 17 and introduce in paragraph 23 a
specification of whether the company adheres to all requirements of the Modules or whether it
omits certain information because it is deemed confidential (explicitly). One national banking
association suggested also specify within this disclosure the datapoints that are not applicable
for the undertaking. On this last point, EFRAG Secretariat explained that such explanation is
already present in the standard in paragraph 20.
Feedback on Basic Module
B1 – Basis for preparation:
1. All banking associations agree to delete the NACE code column in the table in the
guidance under paragraph 79. NACE Sector/s classification codes as requested under
paragraph 23 (d) (iv) for the undertaking not per site
2. Discussion concerning the term “site” or “local unit”. Ultimately, banking associations
agreed that the word “site” is preferred.
3. In addition, banking associations suggest to include “all sites” (not only strategic ones).
Suggestion by two national banking associations to add “turnover by site” for those sites
that add up to 80% of total turnover (for example 4 sites that generate 20% of turnover
each) to replace the notion of “strategic sites”. Not supported by other banking
associations that considered this proposal and the notion of “Strategic sites” too difficult.
4. On geolocation, two banking associations suggested including also the altitude as a
third coordinate.
December 2024 Page 318 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshop with banking and SME associations
B2 – Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy:
5. All banking associations agreed with the template in the guidance (they found it very
user friendly) and with the new disclosure.
B 3 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
6. All banking associations agreed that GHG intensity has to be asked under this
disclosure. They all agreed with the formulation proposed in paragraph 33 by EFRAG
Secretariat.
7. All banking associations agreed that building energy certificates (paragraph 32) should
be deleted on the basis that it is only needed for those buildings used as collateral for
a loan that are usually requested bilaterally as part of the mortgage files.
8. All banking associations agree with the table proposed under paragraph 30. However,
one national banking association suggested to specify in the guidance/make more
explicit in the table of par. 30 what renewable fuels are exactly covered (geothermal,
biofuels...).
B6 - Water
9. All bank association representatives who participate in this discussion stated that the
metric on water intensity is not needed and thus could be deleted.
B8 – Workforce General Characteristics
10. Concerning non-employees (paragraph 45), the majority of banking associations (except
one national banking association) agreed that paragraph 45 can be deleted. However,
EFRAG Secretariat could introduce in the basis for conclusions the fact that information
concerning non-employees could be asked bilaterally at a national level.
11. Concerning staff turnover (paragraph 44), majority banking associations (except two
national banking associations) support keeping it.
Feedback on Comprehensive Module
C2 – Gender diversity ratio in governance body
12. All banking association representatives agreed to keep C2 as needed. Only one national
association stated that it did not need it. To better clarify that if the SME does not have
a governance body in place, it does not have to report this disclosure.
C 3 – GHG reduction and climate transition
13. All banking associations agree with this disclosure. One national banking association
(one national banking association) suggests specifying the scope of the target under
paragraph 60.
C4 – Physical risks from climate change
14. On paragraph 63 point (c), a national bank association representative stated that it would
be better to ask “whether it has undertaken or is planning to undertake climate change
adaptation actions”.
15. One banking association viewed points (a + b) of paragraph 63 to be too complicated for
SMEs and mentioned that these points could be covered by geolocation plus percentage
of turnover or employees of each single site in B1. EFRAG secretariat reminded that the
VSME should raise awareness in managing environmental risks (among others) and by
providing only geolocation SMEs would remain passive in assessing those risks (SR
TEG discussions in July).
16. On paragraph 64 (insurance coverage). All banking representatives agreed to
compromise to ask as a YES/NO question whether or not insurance coverage exists; if
needed banks can ask for the insurance contracts and further details on maturity
bilaterally.
December 2024 Page 319 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshop with banking and SME associations
C5 – Human rights impacts and complaints and C6 – Incidents related to severe human rights
cases
17. Agreement from banking representatives with the drop-down menus proposed under
these two disclosures.
18. One national banking association stated that the SMEs should have the possibility to
complement the drop-down menu responses with a narrative option.
19. Additionally, one European banking association asked to increase clarity on the word
“confirmed cases” in C6 (paragraph 67).
Feedback on Additional Financial Institutions (AFI) MODULE
AFI 1 – Energy Production
20. All banking associations agreed that this disclosure is not necessary but a nice to have,
thus they supported the deletion.
AFI 2 – Vehicle Fleet
21. All banking representatives agreed that this disclosure is not needed. They supported
the deletion.
AFI 4 – Workforce (General) Additional characteristics
22. Agreement by all banking associations to delete the disclosure on disabilities
(paragraph 73). Suggestion to add in basis for conclusions a sentence explaining
that such disclosure could be requested bilaterally at a national level.
23. Concerning the female to male ratio at management level, agreement to keep it.
However, this could be moved to Basic (B8) or in Comprehensive Module.
AFI 5 – Exclusion from EU reference benchmarks
24. Agreement by all banking associations that this disclosure is needed and could
be moved to the Comprehensive Module after C1 – Revenues from certain
sectors.
AFI 6 - Placeholder on future streamlined alignment with EU Taxonomy eligible activities
25. EFRAG Secretariat clarified that this disclosure is a placeholder as a
simplified taxonomy is being developed by the Platform of Sustainable
Finance.
26. One national banking association suggested to correct the title and include
“Taxonomy aligned activities” as only “eligible” is not that useful for banks. EFRAG
Secretariat will amend the title.
December 2024 Page 320 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshop with banking and SME associations
Summary of the SME Post-Consultation Workshop 23 September 2024
Feedback on cross-cutting disclosures
1. SME representatives welcomed the changes and the revised architecture. However, SME
representatives stated the overall guidance remains slightly complicated. Additionally, it was
asked how the tables from the guidance would be integrated in the VSME, whether they would
stay in the guidance or whether they would be placed within the disclosures or how it would
work as a digitalized tool.
a. SR TEG Chair answered that there have been no official conclusions taken with
regards how the digital tool will evolve and who will be in charge of running it.
Additionally, EFRAG may work, compatibly with the available resources, on a number
of IGs for SMEs that are identified as part of the consultation. There is a possibility that
national governments will run individual platforms and that EFRAG might be a
facilitator, however, it could also be that the platform will be a central European one.
EFRAG may be involved in transforming these online tools templates into XBRL.
EFRAG will not develop the online platform per se, but will have this facilitator role,
then we will provide online templates and IGs.
b. An SME representative asked to clarify why EFRAG did not follow through the sub-
module proposal. The member also asked whether in the digital tool, it could be stated
that the undertaking is reporting for a large undertaking or an investor (banks), to then
ask different questions, depending on the user needs.
c. A European SME representative stated that very fruitful meetings have been held with
EFRAG Secretariat, stating that principles were taken on board. Additionally, this
representative mentioned that paragraph 23 (c) (B1 – Basis for preparation) still needs
clarification/ additional guidance to better define “consumers”.
d. SME representatives stated that NACE codes are complicated for SMEs in certain
sectors.
e. Additionally, the integration of former N3 and N5 (from the Narrative-PAT module) into
B2 (Practices, policies and future initiatives for transitioning towards a more sustainable
economy) was appreciated and welcomed by SME representatives and the
associations present in the meeting. The table in the guidance has been especially
appreciated.
Feedback on metrics B3- Energy and greenhouse gas emissions:
2. SME representative reiterated the difficulty for SMEs to know their electricity mix as providers
not always give this information, he asked to reinsert information related to electricity “as
reflected in utility bills” or add the word estimated (of renewable/ non -renewable mix).
B5 - Biodiversity:
3. Confirmation that paragraph 36 will be deleted (as no datapoints are asked from this
paragraph).
B6 - Water:
4. Confirmation to SME representatives that water intensity will be removed as indicated by
banks workshop.
B7 - Resource use, circular economy and waste management:
5. For paragraph 42(b) – (waste diverted to recycling or reuse), the issue for the construction
sector was reiterated from the SR TEG discussion held on 19 September.
6. SME representatives agreed with the possibility of integrating a “not known” clause for this
paragraph. They stated that it would be good to find a way in which the SME can provide the
data without additional preparatory costs, but this may be difficult to implement/ force disposal
contractors to disclose, thus making this “not known” clause more feasible than other
alternatives the SME representatives could think of.
December 2024 Page 321 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshop with banking and SME associations
7. With regards to the word “re-use” (paragraph 42(b)), SME representatives stated that there
lacked clarity on what reuse meant.
8. Another SME representatives expressed that other Circular Economy (CE) principles, other
than “recycling” and “reuse”, are not very well addressed in this disclosure. Other CE
principles such as “repair”, “refurbish” etc. should be included/ covered by the standard to
address specific sector needs such as for the textile and dry-cleaning sectors that focus on
circularity-based services.
9. On this point, an SME representative highlighted the importance of differentiating between
whether the end of the first cycle of a given material induces a cost to an SME (when this
material is sent off for recycling and the SME has to pay for its recycling) or when at the end
of the first cycle, the SME is able to reuse the material and make money from it again (not a
net cost).
10. This SME representative highlighted how in Germany it is differentiated between waste that
brings costs to an undertaking and waste that is reused by the undertaking and is therefore a
source of money.
11. On this point, an SME representative also highlighted that if the annual generation of waste
for recycling goes down, it does not imply that the reuse of materials necessarily goes up, as
the annual generation of waste may decrease for other reasons other than increased
circularity.
B8 - Workforce – General characteristics:
12. On paragraph 44 (employee turnover rate), all SME representatives were against this
datapoint stating that they did not understand how it was linked to sustainability.
13. On this point an SME representative highlighted how this rate may penalise micro and small
SMEs, by leading them to have a high turnover rate, if a few employees decide to leave. This
point was reiterated by many SME representatives who stated that this disclosure only works
with large undertakings, where a couple of employees do not have a meaningful impact on
turnover statistics.
14. On paragraph 45, the SME representative, highlighted their disagreement with the use of
“non-employees”, and would rather prefer the use of the term “temporary agency workers”.
B9 - Workforce – Health and safety:
15. SME representatives had a common position against the inclusion of commuting accidents as
part of work-related accidents. They stated that they disagree with the inclusion of commuting
accidents in the VSME, even if national legislation will force users to ask this datapoint to
SMEs.
B10 - Workforce – Remuneration, collective bargaining and training:
16. An SME representative asked to make paragraph 48 (c) (percentage of employees covered
by collective bargaining agreements) an “if applicable” disclosure. The rationale is that for
many specific SME sectors, there are not possible/ existing bargaining agreements.
17. Additionally, an SME representative stated that the threshold for paragraph 48 (b), should be
150 employees and not 100 employees; based on the Pay Transparency Directive (threshold
of 150 employees until 2031, and then 100 from 2031 onwards).
B11 - Convictions and fines for corruption and bribery:
18. An SME representative stated that the SME is not legally forced to disclose its legal fines.
Entity-specific consideration when reporting on GHG emissions under B3 (Basic Module):
19. Point raised by SME representatives that paragraph 54 (scope 3 reporting for high impact
sectors), should not be compulsory.
C2 - Gender diversity ratio in governance body:
December 2024 Page 322 of 323
Annex 16: Summary of post-consultation workshop with banking and SME associations
20. SME representatives stated that this disclosure is a red flag and should not be included in the
standard.
C4 – Climate Risks:
21. On insurance for physical risks, the SME representative highlighted that it is not acceptable to
ask for this datapoint even in a Y/N manner, as it leads to moral hazard.
December 2024 Page 323 of 323